This is Jockel Podcast number 40 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
And the last podcast that we did, I went a little long with the book.
The book was Brave Men by a guy named Ernie Pile and there was
just some incredible writing in there that I just went deep with.
I read it all.
And so we had to postpone the Q&A.
So that's okay.
Give us some time here to give us some time here to go.
A little deep on some Q&A.
This is podcast number 40 by the way.
Pretty weak straight who wants some 40 weak straight is where we're at.
And that's apparently that's the battle rhythm here.
We put out podcasts and we do it weekly and we've been doing it for 40 straight weeks.
And I dig that.
Yeah, it's good.
And it's not always easy.
You know because if you think about the times, think about the times when you're not
doing anything.
Well, you're not doing anything or when I would normally not be doing anything.
For 40 weeks, I've been doing something.
I've been reading.
I've been prepping.
I've been researching.
So 40 weeks is legit.
And I'm stoked that we're at number 40.
Me too.
And now we get to talk about some questions from the interwebs.
So thanks to everybody for giving us the awesome questions through Twitter, through Facebook.
It's pretty much where they come from, Twitter and Facebook.
I guess I get a couple emails.
I get texts to from like some of my buddies and the SEAL teams don't hit me up with
a question here and there.
A lot of times I just respond to them.
Get real.
Sometimes I use them.
But anyways, yeah, let's get to it.
Let's do it.
Okay, juggle.
First question from the vote.
I've got a lot of questions.
Got a big vote.
And so I was just trying to go through and make sure there wasn't any questions or just
review questions that might be good that I missed the first time around.
So this one right here is from the vote.
It's from the old school to the question.
Yeah, one that you always intended to maybe revisit.
Yes.
And we go revisiting it.
Let the revisit begin.
Started jiu-jitsu.
Thanks to you.
Many tips for complementary exercises, especially for non-athletics of
William, what's the hardest stage of your and what's the hardest stage of your jiu-jitsu
journey.
Yeah, and that's actually for, that's actually it was two questions.
I'll find them in the one because they're kind of similar.
And okay, so do you just want to think that's called much jiu-jitsu?
Is it say it's a very well-rounded physical activity, right?
You've got to have flexibility.
You've got to have strength.
You've got to have endurance.
You've got to be able to recover quickly when from fatigue.
You've got to have some agility, speed, balance, coordination,
proprioception, you know, proprioceptionist.
It's knowing where your body is in space.
Sure.
And it's a talent that gymnasts have very well.
Yes.
Maybe a dancer has very well.
They know where their body is in space.
And jiu-jitsu demands that you know where your body is at all times.
So that's the stuff that you need to work on all those things.
All those things.
Because jiu-jitsu is a unique test of all those things.
It's a test of your strength.
It's a test of your flexible.
It's a test of your endurance.
It's a test of your ability to recover.
It's a test of your agility.
It's a test of your speed of your coordination.
It's a test of all those things.
So that makes it a really good sport to practice in my opinion.
So what do you need to do?
What do you need to do to train them?
Did you need to train all those things?
So for flexibility, I personally like the mobility
of the body.
But you know, get some kind of stretching protocol.
Gymnastics types, movements.
There's gymnastics bodies, which is a ridiculously good protocol.
You can go on.
It's an internet thing.
Gymnasticspotters.com.
And what does that like?
Workout.
Yeah, it's a workout.
It's flexibility.
Yeah.
It's hard core.
But that's really good.
You know, you'll get your flex.
You get all kinds of stuff from that.
But so you've got to be flexible.
You've got to work on your flexibility.
So what are you going to do?
Like I said, you're going to do mobility water.
Some kind of stretching protocol.
So you get limber.
You've got to work on your strength.
So what do you do?
Work on strength?
Olympic lifting.
What does that?
Clean and jerk snatches.
That brings in things like cleans by themselves.
You know, presses and hand cleans and all that.
And then on top of that for strength, you also have the simple movements.
The deadlift, the squat, the front squat, the overhead squat.
And also for strength.
You can go back to gymnastics again.
Go back to those gymnastics movements.
And basic calisthenics.
Pull ups, push ups, dips.
Squats, flutter kicks.
That whole nine yards.
Now you got to have endurance, right?
So what do you do for endurance?
You can see where this is heading.
For endurance, what do you got to do?
Run, swim bike.
Some kind of matcon.
I like the matcon personally.
For my cardio vascular endurance and recovery and whatnot.
You know, so yes, you can, you can add running and sprinting into those.
You can sprint swimming.
You can sprint on a bike.
You can use cattle bells to work your matcombs scenario.
You can actually use barbells to do matcons.
You know, do a bunch of cleans and you will get tired.
And then with that, when you work on your endurance, that thereby improves your recovery.
And so that's, that's going to help you there.
Then you have agility and for agility, what do you do?
To some sports, some cross training of sports.
I personally like to serve.
But you know, it's not just that.
It's basketball.
It's go play soccer, go hockey baseball, whatever set you work on your agility.
You need to get your speed and I already talked about this.
You got your running, your sprinting, the air bike or whatever.
The proprioception, the gymnastics, the movement, type things,
or you're holding your body in space.
So that's a lot of stuff.
That's a lot of stuff.
And you pile all that together.
And you got a lot of varied, varied activity.
And what's nice about that is when people talk about getting burnt out,
I'm like, I never get burnt out.
I'm working out.
I got 97 different base exercises that I can use.
I'm not going to get burned out.
So it, and what's fun is you jump into these challenges.
Like, or you find something that's challenging that you can't do.
And you go, okay, well, I'm going to try and do that.
I'm going to see what I can get my weight up to on this.
I'm going to see if I can do this movement in gymnastics.
I'm going to see if I can do this many pull ups or whatever.
You keep continually varying and heading in a different direction.
And I think I think when you combine all those things together,
and you become a well rounded athlete, that is what will help you the most with the GJ2.
Well, but I don't think there's one exercise like, hey, this will help you.
And GJ2, although the clean and jerk is pretty good.
Yeah.
And anything with, like, your body weight.
So because like, in GJ2, when you're doing GJ2, that's mainly what it is.
Sure, there are elements where you're trying to control someone else's body weight.
But it's mainly what you're doing with your body.
So like, when you do, you know, like this, this, when you climb up.
Oh, the pegboard.
Yeah, yeah, like that kind of stuff.
The bars, all the gymnastics stuff.
And then, as far as like being strong in these weird,
because that's essentially what you're going to be doing in GJ2, you know.
There is, there is, though, there is in GJ2.
You're oftentimes you're moving someone else's weight, too.
Yeah.
And guys that are super explosive.
That's a different thing to deal with.
And it's a good trait to have to be super explosive.
So you can combine that with what, like, when you shrink out in someone.
Yeah.
Sure, something's going to be strong holding you, but when you shrink,
you're pushing your own body weight.
That's your own body weight.
Sure.
You add his own, that's your width of that.
That's just kind of part of the game.
But if you can control your own body in these,
stronger ways, that's going to give like such a big benefit.
So then, then to your Olympic lifting.
To me, that's, in my opinion, that's probably one of the best ones.
Olympic.
And this is why.
Not only do you get that little, little explosive movements in there,
but when you put Olympic lifting to make up your metcon,
when you do like a clean, like a clean press, right?
You, your muscle work is just for a second.
And then for a second, it's almost kind of relax.
And then boom again, and then it's kind of relax, and then you hold and boom,
and it's just repetitive.
That feels like you did to you.
That's kind of what you just can be.
Do you think that's going to be a good thing?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, and if you're in shape in that way, where you can go hard,
rest for just a little bit, and then go hard again,
if that's kind of, if you can do that,
if you're in that kind of shape, that's going to help.
So when you do, when you do a metcon or circuit training,
something like that, where if you can do the exercise,
dynamic rest, like active rest,
you know, where you're walking, or even jogging kind of,
that's what you just do.
It's like work, and you're never really just laying there.
You know, do that kind of thing, and do it in like rounds.
If you're into like a 10 minute round, and you did to,
and that's really your thing, then do your circuit training,
10 minute rounds.
You know, it'll like, it'll help.
It'll get you kind of aware of like,
okay, I'm this tired, I got a manage, you know, all this stuff.
No, but yeah, I agree.
I think metcon swimming, oh, swimming.
But if you do swimming sprints, because it's like your old body.
You know, especially the less, the less comfortable you are in the water,
the more of those swimming things are going to be challenging for you.
Yeah.
But I speak in a little Olympic love.
Do you know, do you know Mo, Mo, Mo, Mo, Mo, Mo, Mo?
Yeah.
Have you returned with him?
No.
So Mo, Mo, Mo, if, for those of you listening that don't know Mo,
as he's a really incredibly good rest,
let me rest a little in college, and he,
is, he didn't, he didn't make the Olympic games,
but he was like in second.
He almost made the Olympic game, but he's a big guy,
so he's, you know, like, 205 pounds.
And he is, I think he is the most explosive person
I've ever trained with when I've trained with some unbelievably
incredibly explosive people.
And you'll find that if anybody wrestled on a high high level,
like if they were a high level college wrestler,
there's a likely chance that they're very explosive.
But yeah, they're very explosive.
And Mo is explosive to a crazy level.
But the reason I thought of it when you said Olympic lifts is
one time he was just trying to help it with some takedowns,
and he was the way he was exploding into him.
And he, he was all fired up, he's like, you know,
it's like, when you do a clean and jerk,
he goes, this right here is the beginning of it.
And he's, you could see that he's developing so much explosiveness.
The first time I ever trained with him, Dean,
Dean, Dean, I can never read Dean with,
when he sets me to train with somebody.
He doesn't give me a heads up.
Like if I were going to tell you,
if there was, like, let's say there was a guy that was a really good
wrestler, and I go, I go, hey, echo, train with a guy
where, hey, he's a really good wrestler.
And if he used, I might even say,
I'm going to say, hey man, he's a really good wrestler,
and he's got a sick, guillotine.
So you're like thinking about it, right?
I'm going to give you a little heads up.
Dean just goes, hey, you should train with him, right?
That's what Dean does.
And so anyways, he did tell me on this occasion,
he goes, hey, most coming down,
you've got to train with him, he's a really sick wrestler.
And I go, awesome.
I think of myself, oh cool, you know?
I actually, for a guy that didn't wrestle in high school,
I have decent take down defense
because I've been defending take down for a long time.
And I utilize jujitsu to defend my take down.
So I'm sprawling in guillotine and going for a community
or I'm doing active aggressive jujitsu moves to people
when they're trying to take me down.
So I'm not trying to say I have any major skills there,
but I'm not a slouch to take down.
So I figured, hey, I got a good wrestler cool.
And he wasn't that experienced in jujitsu,
which tells you, okay, good cool, you know,
you're going to guillotine this guy.
This isn't, you know, or you least have a good chance, whatever.
That's what you think.
So yeah, I'm thinking that.
So I meet Mo and good dude, you know,
or going over some moves and then it's like time to train.
And Dean's like, okay, yeah, you train with him,
chocolate and I go, okay, cool.
So, you know, we slap hands and we're doing the,
and Mo is getting ready for fight,
but we weren't fighting at all.
We were just, and it just the kind of putting context.
I mean, you say Mo's a good wrestler.
Mo also happens to be the bellator to a fight channel.
Or it wasn't the champ, or the, he wasn't at this time.
This was like as he was getting into MMA.
Okay.
Yeah. So he was really actually probably sharper wrestling at this time,
because he was coming out of, you know,
trying to be on the Olympics.
Yeah, yeah.
And yeah, he wrestled, I want to say he wrestled at Oklahoma.
But anyways, King Mo is, is what he's known as,
King Mo.
And so anyway, so we slap hands, we're getting ready,
you know, we kind of square off and I'm, you know,
okay, do my thing.
Boom.
He does this take down to me.
His face hits me in the chest.
And this is in the less than the blink of an eye.
And his hands, they don't even grab my legs.
They just tap my legs like a double leg.
Blast double.
And it's a blast double.
And I'm in the air.
I mean, he knocked me into the air with his face.
Well, let's say it a lot, because you're huge.
Yeah, he knocked me into the air with his face.
I, I, I, I fall down to the ground.
And the funny thing was it was, I got back up immediately.
Like he didn't even, he took me down so fast.
He couldn't even chase me to the ground, because I was already,
I was back up really quickly.
But that was the fastest take down that,
you know, that I'd felt.
That is probably the fastest take down.
Now we have one more guy.
There's a guy coming up right now at the gym.
Another sick wrestler.
But you know, he wrestled.
He's a really good wrestler.
A sick wrestler, collegiate wrestler and all that.
Taylor Taylor, Taylor Johnson.
So Taylor is another guy who has mutant strike.
He has mutant strike.
Un, normal.
It's not normal.
You know, I was on Taylor.
And I was going for like a guillotine, or I think I was actually going for a crucifix.
So I was, but so for those of you that don't know what this is,
Taylor, picture, picture guy on all fours on the ground.
And someone else is trying to rip their head off.
Okay.
So that's Taylor.
He's on all fours on the ground.
And I'm trying to get him.
Ripp is head off.
With one hand.
He, he goes up to his knees and lifts me into the air.
And shot puts me through the air onto the ground.
And is, and then gets across side.
And I started laughing.
I'm like, bro, you just shot put me.
And he didn't even do it from his hips.
Like he didn't get the, the strength from his hips.
He got it from his upper torso.
He didn't use his legs at all.
No legs because he was on his knees.
And so he just has this massive explosiveness.
But then in the thing that's really scary about Taylor,
it is that he's adapting.
Because because just because you're a good wrestler doesn't mean you automatically adapt well to
GJ2.
Some people never adapt really well to GJ2.
And you can see, I mean, in MMA in the UFC, there's plenty of wrestlers that you look at
and you go, yeah, that guy never really transitioned into become a comprehensive ground fighter.
That was as comfortable on his back as he is on cross side as he is going for submissions.
There's some guys that would been extremely successful that never made that transition.
But they stay on top ground and pound Taylor, if you watch him roll,
you might not even know he was a wrestler until you roll with him.
And then you're going to feel that you can't move him.
But if you just watch him roll, you're like, oh, wow, he's going for, you know,
advanced you did to move by the way, been training for less than a year.
Yeah, very surprising with him in regards to that.
Like, you look at him.
If you look at him, you're like, okay, I'm about to roll with this guy.
And then you roll with him, you're going to be like, okay, I'm not surprised at this guy's,
like, this guy's strong, his balance is just like, like, magical balance kind of thing.
So when you look at him in on the on the on the surface, but if you know that he's such a
accomplished wrestler, you would think given his experience, you think, okay, his, his
Jiu Jitsu or even his like, when he's training his Jiu Jitsu, you know,
you wouldn't expect it to be that fluid.
Like when I rolled with him, I was like, I thought when you were like, yeah,
Taylor's, he's kind of the new guy, you know, you, you, you haven't rolled with him.
What he should roll with him because, you know, he, he gets good training.
Yeah.
Really good.
So what I'm thinking is good, but I'm thinking this is going to be real wrestling intensive.
Yeah.
Training scenario.
Then he told the guy on you.
No, he didn't pull guard, but his whole thing, again,
Yeah, he was in the hard, he doesn't care.
Yeah, he was like, I'm here to train.
I mean, you're, you know, get good or whatever man.
And he's, and that kind of attitude.
Yep.
He gets you so good.
And he's, yeah, man, it wasn't, he wasn't trying to like, okay, another big guy.
Let me like wrestle this guy.
He was, we were doing straight up Jitsu and he was, he was, it was clean.
It was good.
Yeah.
But anyways, he's got that super explosiveness too.
That's, that's new in level.
And also is striking.
Yeah.
Is ridiculous.
And he hasn't been, he's just a natural athlete because he's been just,
Yeah.
Anyways, so that's him.
And we got a bunch of other firefighters too.
I mean, you got Big Andy, who's awesome.
Just, just, just, just, just showed up.
So we got some, got some good training in there.
Yeah.
But back to this deal.
So I was talking to Taylor about Hago Brody.
Do you ever like, Olympic lift?
And he goes, yeah, yeah, yeah, I got an acrossfit for like a month.
And, and that was right before I got an MMA and I was doing pretty good.
And I was like, what does that mean?
He's like, oh, I was, I could snatch him like 300.
I was like, what?
And then, I'd made it across fit games.
He did cross fit for a month.
And never snatch before an off-sony snatch.
Almost 300 pounds.
That's insane.
Yeah.
So, but that, and that's what it feels like when you roll with somebody that has that kind of explosive strength,
it's very, very, it's, it's a very good tool to have.
Now there's, we could go through the entire list of body types, strengths and weaknesses.
Because, you know, you get, you get the lanky people that are strong and why are you like a Higgs.
You rolled with Higgs before, right?
No.
Yeah.
Higgs is lanky, wiery skinny when he puts the triangle on you.
It starts to cut into your body because he's all, you know,
uh, compritos like that comprio's us again.
Like, like, how can you sweep him when his arm is, is basing like four,
like eight feet over there is where he's basing.
So you get that kind of body then you get the real, like the stocky.
Uh, people with no limbs sticking out, you know?
Yeah, you can't it's hard to choke them.
So anyways, we go through everybody style, but any,
any, one of them has an advantage, but the thing that's cool about
explosiveness is something you can somewhat train, right?
You can somewhat train now.
You can't, you're not going to be able to naturally get as explosive as
mole a wall or as Taylor Johnson, but you can get strong,
right? You can get stronger or so, but, but the other thing is,
where can you defeat them? Where can you, where can you be better than them?
Maybe you can be more flexible than them.
Maybe you can be faster on a scramble.
Maybe you can be heavier and tighter.
So there's some athletic things that you could try and do trying to prove
to overcome and negate some of their advantages.
Hard to do. You get some people that are mutants.
Yeah. Yeah.
The Dean's big and flexible, right? Dean is being strongly
super shockingly flexible.
Glover is so flexible that you know, you have to negate that and
Glover, you know, he loves training with big muscle bound guys.
Yeah. That's like an easy day for him.
That's what he likes to, you know, that's what that's he,
that's the, that's the the easiest matchup body style for him.
That's someone that's just super, super strong and muscle bound.
Yeah. And the, you get mutants like, and I'd say that's kind of
kind of a good way of putting it mutant like Taylor, where he has a
wrestling background. So he's no stranger to like functioning while he's tired.
You know, so I'd say if you're big, explosive, strong or whatever,
typically your endurance is not that good.
Typically. So if you get all those factors and their flexible and
stuff and they have endurance, there's your bad day right there.
If this guy has that other than that, if you take one or two
different attributes, you can always find what's like rock paper
scissors. You can always find one that can, if you just employ this
strategy, it'll give you more than a advantage. And, and because I always
like the tie this together to leadership. So it's the same thing
with leadership and what? Because people last me all the time.
Our leaders, born or made, you know, can you, can you develop a
leader? Everybody is born with certain leadership characteristics.
It's just like a video game where they rank your strength and your
intelligence and your agility and all this stuff that we just talked about.
You don't have that further leadership capability as well, right?
Are they articulate? You know, because that's some people are
articulate and that as a good advantage to have, can you read people
well? Well, that's another thing that some people are naturally
good at. Can you simplify things? That's a talent that some
people have. Now you could go on this list. But what you find is that
people, some people are gifted and they have really strong
leadership characteristics, leadership traits. And that's great.
And then you get some people that don't have those. And so what do you
got to do to the same thing that I have to do in my digital game?
How do you develop those things? How do you become more articulate?
How do you simplify things? How do you recognize that you are a person
that makes things more complex? And how do you focus on making things
simplified? So you just go right down the list. So yes, you can be more
in some natural leadership characteristics. But if you're not born with
them, how do you develop them? It's usually these things are
that hard to develop either. You know? So when you have weaknesses,
identify them, be humble enough to identify them. And then see how
you can improve upon them. And although they may never become your
staple of your game, either as a leader or a digital player
or a digital player, you can be a person that's not something you have to
protect. That's something you have to worry about. Yeah, you can kind of
function in those little regards now. Yes, you can become functional.
And for instance, if you're not the most articulate person, well,
number one, you can study, you can listen to people speak, you can
record yourself speaking, you can video yourself. So you can be
practiced and become more more articulate. And you can, that means,
you're not very particular. So guess what I'm going to do? I'm going to
plan more before I go and brief people. I'm going to go through exactly what
I'm going to say, I might even rehearse it two times. Then I'm going
to sound articulate. So you're going to make up for those, those
problems. And that's all you have to do is figure out how you can
make up or how you can get rid of or how you can mitigate some of
those weaknesses that you have. The other thing you could do is you
surround yourself with somebody that's super articulate. Echo, you're
more articulate than me. Cool. I want you to put out the word of the
word of the word of the word. Boom. Done. Even though I might be in
charge, I'll say, all right, hey, Echo is going to brief this
operation or Echo is going to brief this strategy and then boom,
Mr. Articulate Echo gets up there and does it. Maybe not the best
example. But that's what you do. That's how you want to, that's how
you, you fill in the holes in your leadership game. And the, by the way,
you have weaknesses and that they're there. Yeah, totally true. And I
know you, back to the G. J. It's a real quick. I know you're saying
all these things kind of with it with the given that really the
main thing to train is how much you know, that's really kind of
the main thing. Yeah, the number one thing. So that's all
it's like I said, a given because the question is supplemental stuff.
Sure. So yeah. So let's say these all these little
comparisons like, you know, the, to me, aside from no
thing, you did to that's the main strength or whatever, if everyone's
even to me, the taller guy has the advantage that to me, that's
the most effective advantage that I've seen. It's interesting.
Yeah, you think that. Yeah, I don't think I necessarily agree with
you. What a very tall, very lengthy guy will have is a body
type that that you come across the least. So since you are
coming across this body type, the least, you get the less
you have the least training against it. And since you have less
training, you get said you don't react to it. And by the way, they
constantly work on their strange body style because you are
correct in the fact that the lengthy body style is is
gives you more moves more unique moves than any other body style.
So there's unique move. There's more more unique moves that
only are utilized or can be utilized by a tall, lengthy person.
Then there are then any other body style. Right. And also, you can
pretty, I mean, I'm not saying he's seven feet tall. I'm saying like
the six one up to yeah, like, six one doesn't do it. To me,
well, six one can do it if the person's like, yeah,
beginning of it. But how does like we have stills appropriately
named at the gym. And he has he's tall and like, I think he
has five, but he has really developed the lengthy guy style that
people aren't used to. And it's a challenge for anybody. Yeah. So
stills a good example where in this case, where he's a little bit
different because stills has the lengthy body style, but he
went pretty, he's going pretty hard in that direction where he's
actually moves that only he can be kind of smooth. So that's
exactly the point I'm making. Right. Right. So my way
of as most normal body styles, everybody that's, you know,
five three to, you know, six. Oh, they all have pretty much the same
moves. Right. Right. You know, yeah. So when I'm talking about
I'm not talking about them, I think there's that, but those are
the kind of the outliers that I think overall. I mean, everyone
plays their strengths in one another, but course. I'm saying just
all things mean equal. So like let's say all three
Gracie brothers, Hodgour Gracie, then these guys who are
like six, six, six, four, six, you know, five type
guys will take Hodgour for example. He doesn't really do any kind of crazy
I am tall. So I can only do this. True. You know, he doesn't do that. He
does like, you know, but his like just mount for example. For his
arm bar set up from the bottom or track from the bottom stuff
is just way harder to deal with because he developed such a good
base on top of the fact that physically is made for such a good
base, you know, and he and okay. And here's the thing about
tall guys in general. They're not limited to the moves they can do.
They can do more or less. Yes. All the moves. So like the guys who's
five, three, two, 50 or I'm not fighting. We'll say five, three,
two, 20. Where are you going to just say five, eight? Sure.
Two, two, thirty, whatever. We'll just say that's a stocky
rough guy. He's going to have hard time doing triangle.
Churps on guys. He's on size and his weight division. He
probably turns out. Yeah. That's a triangle. That's a triangle.
It's a major part of the game. Move. Yes. You can't do it. Yeah.
Tall guys don't have that problem. They can do all the moves. They can do
trills, arm bars, whatever. And they're pretty easy. You know, so
like I said, that's why I think, and I, and of course, the
flexible tall, lanky guys, they do have that. But I think we all
do. I think all do what. I have like our body style. Yeah. Give us
special moves only we can do. Yeah. Even if you're sure
in stock. The list of moves, the best list of special moves that I
can do with my body style is like two. Yeah. And the list
that stills can do with his body style is infinite. Still
says two things though he has tall and lanky and he has flexible.
And flexible. Okay. And so yeah. So that's like he has double
the, but I think the tall has the most in their bucket. I think
they definitely have the most options of moves that other
humans can do. But again, the main thing is to know the main
thing is to know the main thing is to know the nature. For sure.
Yeah. For sure. That is the, that is the amazing thing.
And then the other part of this question is what was the hardest
stage of your jujitsu journey? Me, I would say the whole thing
just in completely different ways. Like the, the first
part is like dang you get tired away too quick. And guys who,
you know, are way smaller than you way, you know, whatever
then you are beating you up, you know, and that kind of thing.
Beating you up with no factor whatsoever. Yeah. And they're like
teaching you hey, this is what you did wrong. And you're sitting there
all, but in my case, I was like, 225 when I started. And I'm like
sitting there in this little guy. I don't know if you remember
George, but he, he's a little purple belt that was I was
rolling with a lot. He taught me butterfly guard. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
He's teaching me stoms to the scene with my big muscles. And he's
like teaching me stuff. So that can be hard, I guess. And
I'm getting tired, but I think. And then yeah, you go up blue belt.
In my particular experience, blue belt was pretty, the easiest, I
think, because nothing really was expected of me. And blue belt
is a good place. At the same time, in a way, some people
it's the most frustrating. Yeah. But if you're, like, blue belt,
you're, you're, you're, you're a blue belt. So people know that
you know, you did to a little bit, but you're not expected to
tap anybody. No, yeah. And if you get tapped out by another blue
belt or a purple belt or a brown belt or a black belt, it's no big deal.
Yeah, you're blue. And even a white belt taps you and you're like,
yeah, you know, that shouldn't happen, but yeah, so much to learn. Yeah.
Yeah, totally. And, and, and, yeah, that, you know, how, you know,
when you learn something from the point of not knowing anything
and then you start to learn, you learn the most quantity
wise at the bottom when you start. For sure. You know, so, and
that's a philosophical way of putting, it's a specific way of putting
it. So I think there's some stages in the mid levels where your, where your mind starts to fill up and you start to be able to
really absorb stuff to big giant things. Right. But in, as far as
you did, it's totally true. And that's what I mean by like, that's a, that's a way of putting it maybe
philosophically, maybe, but it's because when you're, I mean, quantity wise, meaning
learning the moves, you know, at, like, black belt unless there's these weird special
moves that are coming out or wherever, you know all the moves. You know all this stuff.
It's now it's about other stuff. You got to learn other stuff timing, you know, approaches and all this more like interstitial stuff.
But from a blue belt, you still, like, there's moves. You just don't know.
For sure. So you learn a way quicker if you're interested, you know, so you're like, oh,
I have no answer to this guard pass. I have no answer. I'm a blue belt literally no answer to this guard pass.
So I mean, can show you, oh, this, how you do it, you just, just block the
thing, and you're, oh, automatically not so you just learn more in my experience.
So I didn't think blue belt was very frustrating at all, and I didn't spend much time with blue belt.
And then when you hit purple belt, that's when the learning frustration hits.
Because you're good enough, and you kind of have this weird confidence that's developed.
And then you're, you're doing so well against all these guys, and they just, you just hit that one level up where you can do nothing.
It's nobody and you're just there for a long time.
Because it's almost like you got to switch over to learning different types of things now.
Yeah, you got to open your brain up, open your mind, open your game up, and you got to be vulnerable.
You're not going to learn without making yourself vulnerable from time to time.
Yeah. And again, there's a good parallel hair worth learning about leadership.
I think it's the same thing. You know, you come into a leadership position for the first time.
And it doesn't take long before you're like, okay, I kind of got this, and that's like your blue belt phase where you,
you start feeling like, and then the more people you get to command or the senior leadership position,
you get put into where the harder situation, you get put into.
You realize that all you got to continue to exercise your mind, you got to continue to grow.
You got to continue to try and absorb new information and try new strategies and tactics and still stick with the fundamentals.
Because that's that's one thing that, you know, the fundamentals of GJ2, they're fundamentally the same from white belt to black belt.
And yet they're, they change and there's a times where you break those rules and they're new ones.
And it's the same thing with being a leadership position. The fundamentals don't change, but then how are those, how are those fundamental principles?
New wants to handle these different situations.
Yeah, that's very challenging.
Yeah. And then, yes, true. And Brown belt to me is more the same as purple belt, but just more refined, you know.
So it's less of the frustration, but the frustration becomes more concentrated.
You know what's crazy for me? And I don't know if this is just, you know, when you remember back in the past, like you forget the bad stuff of the past.
Sure.
Do you know what I mean? Does everyone do that?
Depends a little bit.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, you know, we were in high school, everything was great.
Right?
So hey, when we went to college, everything was great or, you know, in the sealed teams, you go, oh, yeah, that deployment was great. We forget about all the hard stuff on a deployment or anyone that was bad or whatever didn't work out the way wanted to.
I don't know if it's that, but when I talk about the hardest stage of my jitzu jury journey, it's one big blur of fun.
There's nothing where I think, wow, I was frustrated this time. No, man, I never had that feeling. I go home from the gym every time kind of like, good day training, but that was fun.
That was cool that I learned this or man, I can't believe like a cop by that guy. He's getting good or whatever, you know, just kind of, I don't have like these these hard stages to me.
Yeah.
Maybe I'm just a person that really enjoys it a lot, I guess.
Yeah, and I would say that that's most people.
I think so too.
I think I'm the same boat and, you know, for you, the term frustrations.
Yeah, big, a wall.
And I'm actually, you know, I don't, I don't want to bring this out in the public audience, but I actually have seen you get frustrated from time to time.
Well, those are like, my fruity way of getting frustrated.
Whatever, then I see the same thing with you.
When, oh, you're a miss, okay, one time you're rolling with Dean and Dean had you, you know how like Dean will get ahead of you psychologically.
And he'll be like, oh, yeah, and he'll like be baiting you and laughing and stuff.
And then the more he laughs, the less you laugh.
So you're getting really mad. And I remember he was doing this thing where you guys stood up and you were like, you were just tired of what's going on.
You're tired of it and you're turning up the heat and Dean was just like, okay, and then he like Lee, okay, this is what he did. He leaned against the wall.
Kind of like, oh, you can't take me to Adam again. So all and you engage or whatever you guys went down and he got you.
I think he got you with Armbar.
And I remember it was Armbar because I remember thinking, I don't think I've ever seen Jockel's egg and tapped out.
Be with the Armbar. I can see like a foot lock, something like Jockel.
But he got you with Armbar and you were like, you were frustrated.
Yeah. On the last, I was like, what we could call a micro frustration overall.
There, these are like little challenges. So that frustration though, is it possible for it to be called frustration if it brings me joy?
Is it possible because even in the depths of like frustration, and I feel good, even getting tapped out.
Yeah, especially when you can reflect on it. And that's why I think you said, or when you said, you forget about the bad things.
You forget about the bad things in a certain kind of discourse.
If you regard that overall discourse as being a good thing, then you'll start to get the bad thing.
Yes. And vice versa.
But I never go home and say, like, oh, man, I can't believe that I couldn't get out of there. I just couldn't get anything.
At least it's, I don't remember.
Yeah. Yeah. I got to have that feeling to there. Something like that.
Yeah. It has to be, and really what they are are just the challenges that are specific to certain stages.
And these are just these are real general things that probably apply to, you know, to everybody in one way or another on the stages.
Yeah.
It's the same thing with leadership like most of the time, even though I've been some situations where I was like, man, I didn't do a good job there.
I could done better. Normally, I'm not frustrated or I was working for somebody that wasn't let me do what I wanted to do.
And I had more maneuvering to do to get where I needed to be.
Yeah.
I didn't get frustrated and enjoy that game.
Yes, they did.
Yeah.
Micro frustrations.
They're like, micro terrors in your muscle.
You feel them, but they're all for like benefit for overall muscle.
They're not in general.
Exactly.
Awesome.
That's question.
Thanks, Kesch.
Jockel.
You've talked about how getting into adversarial relationships is pointless, but people always get into adversarial relationships with me.
I've been told I'm scary before, but never understood why.
My question is, how do I maneuver on this without acting like a little weakling?
Bitch, I'll act with my character.
To appear less threatening.
Do I just accept that?
I rub people the wrong way.
So this is a question.
I'll do my best to answer because it's time for definitely time for some self-awareness here for the individual asking this question.
It sounds like you are, you know, a big, abrasive person that is aggressive and intimidates people.
And I know what's like to be that person because I could come across as intimidating.
I know that.
I can definitely come across as aggressive.
I can be aggressive.
I am aggressive in many ways.
Abrausive.
I don't know that not necessarily categorizes me because I'm very cautious about not being abrasive,
because if I'm being abrasive with people, am I building a relationship under making any progress?
I think that's the answer.
So something, the thing is, when I hear this type of question, I think that there's some little bit of insecurity going on here.
Right?
Some little bit of, hey, that's not an insult.
That's what I sense because everyone's got insecurities.
I do, everybody does.
But the fact that you asked this question, I'm hoping that that means you want to make some kind of improvement.
Right?
You want to get better.
And, you know, I'm a little worried that you might just be looking for like reinforcement because people think,
Joc was big and aggressive.
So if I say I'm big and aggressive, I'm, you know, Joc was just going to say, hey, those people are just scared of you and they don't deserve your mercy.
Or, you know what you do?
You use your intimidation factor overrun those people, right?
That might be what you're looking for.
But you're not going to get that here.
Because that's not going to help you.
It's not going to help you achieve your goals.
And you talk about people being scared of you.
But the fact likely is, is that you're the one that's scared.
And you actually said it yourself and that you don't want to appear to be weak.
You don't want to appear to be a bitch, right?
That is that feeling, that's fear.
That's fear.
It's fear of looking weak.
It's fear of looking wrong.
It's fear of failure and it's fear of vulnerability.
And those are, those are real.
Those are real.
And if you're, you know, everybody should be feeling those fears.
At some level, but you have to overcome those fears.
If you don't, then how are you ever going to step up?
If you're, if you're too afraid to be wrong, how are you ever going to answer a question?
If you're too afraid to, look weak,
however you ever going to expose yourself, any weaknesses.
If you don't expose any weaknesses, well, just build a bunker around yourself and sit in there by yourself.
So as a leader, we know that up and down the chain of command,
you need to develop relationships, right?
That's what that's what you're supposed to do.
That means you need to communicate with people.
That means you need to talk and you need to listen and you need to develop trust.
And one of the best ways to develop trust with other people is by exposing some vulnerability.
By saying, hey, I'm not quite sure how to do this or hey, echo.
Can you help me with this issue?
I am going on here. I don't know how to solve it.
That's ways that you build trust in thereby build relationships.
And it's hard to do that because you don't want to look stupid.
You don't want to look weak. You don't want to admit you don't know something.
Because you want to be Mr. Strong and know everything.
And so you're probably putting up a front on aggressive front and abrasive front.
It's a wall to keep people intimidated.
And then in your mind, you think it's not my fault.
It's their fault because they're scared of me.
It's their fault because I'm so intimidating.
So that is not good.
And then you get the your kind of closing statement. Should you just accept that I run people the wrong way.
You can.
You can accept that you run people the wrong way.
But then you might as well accept right then and there that you're never going to be a true leader.
That's you're never going to build any relationship that you're never going to inspire anybody.
And you're never going to be the leader of a badass unified, high performing team.
Probably not worth it.
And the the better thing to do is to humble yourself.
Is to open yourself up to the pain and the discomfort of displaying weakness and error and failure.
And open yourself up to try and be nice to other people.
Instead of being scared of what's going to happen if you expose yourself.
Go ahead and throw it out there.
Act pleasant to them.
So they talk to you without fear and then doing those things.
You can overcome whatever these on the insecurities are.
And I don't know what the insecurities you have.
You could be any number of things. Maybe you don't think you're smart as they are.
Maybe you don't think you're as well educated as they are.
Maybe you don't think that they have you have the strategic vision that they have.
Whatever those insecurities are. It's all good.
We all got them.
No big deal.
But if you stop hiding them and you own them.
You will become not only a better leader.
But you become a better man.
So take a breath and get home.
And take another crack at this gig.
You know, I think losing your temper is a huge red flag.
Like I've always said and always will say, you'd red flag.
If you're losing your temper and I'm not saying screaming yell.
I'm just saying you're getting mad at displaying that anger.
Well, what's really what's really what's really.
What's really bad is when people utilize their temper as a tool to scare and intimidate people.
It's like, oh man, I don't want to say anything to juggle on this because you're going to lose his temper.
It's mind go crazy.
Like that's that's me using it as a tool.
Which is not good because you're not building any relationships.
You're not going to need input from people.
You're you're not respected by the way. People might fear you if you have a bad temper,
but they don't respect you. They're not calling you up and asking you for advice.
They're not wanting you to run their their project.
Yeah.
No.
And they're not motivated to do good by you when you're not around.
They are definitely not motivated to do good by you and you're not around.
In fact, the only reason they do anything is out of fear.
So whereas if you have a relationship with them, you could leave for six months.
And the people that know you and respect you and care about you and have a relationship,
they're still busting their ass to do the best they can for you.
You glad when you come back to.
Yeah.
And a lot of times like.
So the adversarial relationship thing.
Wait a look at it is it kind of takes both you to kind of cultivate an adversarial relationship.
Go let's go to the right.
Go.
No.
Yes.
It will okay.
So here.
You keep being a dick to me.
Mm-hmm.
We'll say.
And if I just keep being nice to you.
Even though you're being a dick to me.
Even though we have a job to do with it.
Yes.
All that and remain tainted integrity of that.
But I'm keep being nice to you.
You keep being a dick to me.
I keep being nice to you.
After a while the way that shakes itself out is.
I'm being nice.
I just percone the denominator.
No.
Well, here's the thing.
We're still getting the job done whenever.
But my response to you if you be a dick to me is not be a dick back or defend.
You know, it's just being a, oh, you know, it's a way we're going to say it shakes out.
As it shakes out, the one guy who's a dick stands out.
So everyone's being cool and when all is said and done, we're just dealing with one guy who's a dick.
So if you, if you cultivate the adversarial relationship,
it's like, okay, you have this competitive situation.
Now two people, you know, our dick.
So you guys that are jerks.
Yeah.
And let's say you were nice.
Gotta begin with.
Don't become a jerk now, you know.
Mm-hmm.
That's true.
So, and I'm saying that because a lot of times, if you're like, hey, people are creating
Adversary relationships with me.
You're going to play a part in that relationship, you know?
Yeah.
And the thing with this question, and, you know, I mean, even the terminology used, which is, you know,
how do I maneuver on this without acting like a little bitch?
Yeah, literally.
So you got to figure not, not, you know, not the most mature person.
So I'm guessing, hey, man, you're probably 22, you know, 24, something like that, or you're having
matured a lot in your 27, but you're still caught in that game.
And I think a lot of times, you know, people when they meet me or they learn about me, or
I show up at their business, they think I'm going to be that guy.
That's like, we're going to just comb it here.
And it's always really cool when people go, man, yeah, I didn't think of that.
It's all you have this approach that we didn't expect, and I'm like, yeah, you know?
And by now, most people kind of, you know, at this stage in Eshelon front, when I show up somewhere,
people have listened to podcasts.
They know where I'm coming from.
Yeah.
Now, but, you know, two years ago, you know, they expected this big, sergeant slaughter type thing to go down.
With these folks in the show, with these people in the shape, and my guess is that the
individual that asked this question was kind of thinking, he would get some moral support for me.
And I'm trying to give more support, because I want to do this successful, because I want him to go out and
dominate in the world.
But to go out and dominate in the world, you have to be a chess player, not a checker's player.
You've got to think.
You've got to use the relationships.
You've got to use indirect warfare to go out there and be blunt force trauma on everybody.
It'll get you, it'll get you, you know, it'll get you a quarter of the way there.
If you're lucky, and then it won't get you the rest of the way.
So just just in Snowvik deal, man, you're young, you got some learning to do.
That's awesome.
I wish I would have been smart enough to ask this question when I was a young student,
23 years old.
You've got some, you're thinking you recognize that you're in a situation.
So all you got to do is just just start taking a different approach, a little bit more of an indirect approach,
a little bit more of an open mind, a little bit more humility, don't worry about looking weak.
When you, the people that are scared to look weak are the people that are weak.
The people that are okay being exposed are the people that are strong.
Like, I'm totally comfortable with my leadership capabilities.
So when I have an issue, I'm like, hey, I don't feel comfortable with this.
I'm not worried that somebody's not going to say like, oh, we don't think you can handle this.
No, no, no, I actually, I know I can.
I've been in more situation. So what do you got?
Yeah.
So if you're paranoid about looking weak, it means you probably are weak.
If you don't care about being looking weak, it probably means you're coming along.
You're doing pretty good.
Yeah.
Check.
So you don't need a hard shell if you have a hard core, but you need a hard shell if you have a soft core.
Yes, that is true.
Kind of thing.
Yes.
Did you just make that up?
Yeah, but I mean, I'm not looking at it like dang that was deep.
I'm not thinking that.
But that is a true statement.
If you're if you're fundamentally sound on the internal and the internal and the internal.
Meaningful structure of your of your being, then you can withstand attacks.
So you don't need to put up a big wall.
Right.
You know, but if you're fundamentally weak, internally, and the fundamentals of your of your being are weak,
then you need to put up a big wall protection.
You need to go around and bow up to people and yeah, you may be some weapons out there.
It's really keep them away, you know, from guns, some heavy, there's something nice.
All right.
Good.
Next question.
Would love to hear tips for moving to wake up earlier.
Alarms and not disturbing your spouse keeping alert throughout the day.
You know, when you wake up early, these are, yeah, these are things.
So tips for managing the implications around making that change to get up earlier while keeping the space.
Or keeping the speed or keeping the peace at home and work and work.
You put that.
I did have a work.
He had some, he either made a typo or he's on the inside.
What that is.
That's a homage to the Portuguese accent.
Yes.
Well, no, it's a homage to the fake Portuguese accent.
No.
It's the real one.
Worky.
Anything adding like E at the end?
Like it'll come out.
Oh, yeah.
It can be exaggerated though by certain people.
Right.
Myself included.
Okay.
So how do wake up in the morning?
Number one.
Let's talk about one important piece.
How do you do without disturbing the spouse?
Because we don't want to, we don't want to make the spouse angry.
No adversarial relationships with the spouse.
No, at 430.
No, not at 430.
So one of the things real, real easy one out of the gate.
Get an escalating alarm.
So what that means is it starts off quiet.
And it gets louder.
It gets progressively louder.
I am a much lighter sleeper than my wife.
So this is not that big of a deal to me.
And I can't answer.
But I've slept with roommates at one sleep.
You know, like in the military, you got bunk together or whatever.
So I've dealt with this a little bit.
But it's really no factor.
Get an escalating alarm.
And then when that thing goes off,
you wake up before it gets too loud to wake your spouse.
It should be on your side of the bed.
So you can make it happen.
Or you can pick a song that starts off nice and mellow.
And that kind of builds.
And for a long time, for this particular reason,
I used to have, um,
There's a band called The Sword.
Sure.
And they have a song called Iron Swan.
And it starts off nice and mellow.
If you don't get up in time, it's coming.
So you got it.
So it's like a kind of like a game within the game right there.
Where you got to beat the clock.
Yes.
You got to beat the clock.
You got to get up and turn that thing.
Because otherwise it's an end.
And then you're too late.
What is it, black Swan?
No.
Iron Swan.
It's the sword.
This is what it is.
Yeah.
Because there's, there's times in my life where
I will put like the ultimate
shocker of a tune in my playlist.
In my playlist that if I need to get up and I need to get up and get on it.
Like there's a song called Repeat Process by 100 Demons.
That song will get you out of bed.
It will get you out of bed.
When it kicks in, it just comes.
It comes.
It's like, it's like, getting, it's, it's like an explosion happens in your room.
And it's a great song by a great band.
But anyways.
So if, but in this case, you don't want to go with 100 Demons.
No.
You don't want to go with repeat process.
Mm-hmm.
You want to go with the sword to iron so on.
Or an escalating alarm.
Now, once you do that, you've got to have the gear pre-staged.
The gear has the morning gear has to be pre-staged.
So, so we're not in the dress.
We're not pulling open drawers.
We're not flipping on lights.
We're not searching for stuff.
No.
We get up.
We walk out of the room.
Yeah.
Quietly.
Then you get to either the bathroom.
Now, if you have the bathroom on suite,
maybe you have some stuff staged in the other bathroom in the house.
So you just walk right out of the room, shut the door in your good.
You made your escape.
Yep.
Oh.
And I'll tell you another thing.
Oh, heads up.
Make sure that you set off your secondary.
I mean, that you turn off your secondary and your tertiary alarms.
So if you're like me, and you see the multiple alarm clocks,
if you leave because they go off sequentially,
you know you got your first one.
Iphone.
Then you got your second one battery powered.
Then you get your third one wind up.
The wind up is the gnarly last one with the.
Right.
If you leave that thing, if you forget to shut that thing off before you walk out,
you can hear about it.
You can hear right.
Because now when it goes off, it's a startleer.
Because it doesn't go off.
I mean, most, you know, 50% of the time I'm out before the alarm is.
But if you leave that one on there, it's a startleer.
And then then your spouse is waking up in a panic mode.
Because now they don't know where it is.
Then there's effort.
They're being attacked.
It's, it's a gnarly situation.
So shut off the secondary and tertiary alarms.
And then get out of the room.
And then, you know, maybe you even have your toothbrush and your toothpaste staged
and another in the another bathroom or in a kitchen or whatever.
Got your workout gears not in a drawer by the bed where your pull and that open
and making that racket. No, you just get up and you leave.
So then, that's, that's how you do it.
That's how I do it.
And again, I've been in advantage because my wife is a pretty heavy sleeper.
She gets mad when I come home from a trip and late at night.
I do some unpacking in the night.
That can be a little frustrating for her.
But anyways, that's what she do.
Now, the next piece of this question was for alertness throughout the day.
What do you do to stay alerted throughout the day?
I think one of the things you have to do is check your diet.
Right. Check the diet.
Make sure in my opinion, make sure you're not ingesting a ton of carbohydrates.
Because those are going to make you tired.
They're going to make you excited or make you fired up for about 20 minutes.
I don't know. I haven't had them in a long time.
For like 20 minutes before you eat them.
Like, right when you actually, that's really what they're for.
Yeah, they're a cartel.
They're a cartel.
And it's an energy.
Yeah.
And they put you to sleep.
So when you eat it, it's basically the really basic sequence.
I'm going to do some output in the wild.
I'm going to go hunting on whatever.
I'm going to gather whatever.
I'm going to do some output.
That expanded some energy.
I'm going to need some energy.
And I'm going to need some rest.
When you get the energy, carbohydrates, food, anyway.
Serotonin.
Well, these are chemicals that induce you to go rest.
That's the sequence.
That's the process.
Don't forget about insulin.
Yeah.
Because the insulin also quit away.
The insulin's going to make you tired too.
So check your diet.
Check your diet.
I just had a guy on Twitter.
Man.
He's like, hey man, I'm tired during the day.
I'm dragging.
I'm just like, well, check your diet.
And he's like, well, I think it's okay.
I'm drinking a lot of energy drinks.
No.
Not good.
The energy drinks are addictive.
Yeah.
They're tasty.
They're addictive.
And they're filled with sugar.
Most of the time.
So you're going to get a major sugar rush.
And then you're going to crash.
So you've got to be careful that.
Also, you don't want to be on the crazy amount of caffeine.
All day.
And that's going to mess up your system as well.
Does the same thing is the caffeine rush.
And then the crash.
That's the same thing.
Same thing.
Yeah.
And what I'll tell you right now.
People ask me all the time.
They're surprised that I work out without caffeine in the morning.
But I'm telling you.
Give it a try.
Yeah.
Because it'll be harder.
Maybe it's harder for you to get out of bed.
Maybe it's harder for you to get into the gym with no caffeine.
And maybe it's harder for you to start your workout with no caffeine.
But once you start the workout, I don't think it's going to be that big of a deal.
And if it is good, make your workout harder.
You know, I don't think it's that big of a deal.
So don't become addicted to the caffeine.
And that's going to be because that can get problematic.
And then power nap talked about this before.
If you need to, you take a little power nap.
You take six to eight minutes.
You set your alarm clock.
You elevate your feet above your heart.
You lay down.
And you black out. If you're really tired, you six to eight minutes.
You feel like a rock star after one of those.
You know, agree.
And another thing you can do if you're tired during the day.
No big deal.
Just find a little corner somewhere.
Go bang some push ups out.
Go bang out.
Oh, 10 burpees.
Yeah, yeah, get the blood flowing.
Just get the blood flowing.
Yeah.
There's no way.
It's it's.
Physiologically impossible to do burpees and and remain tired.
Whatever burpees you can tell you, you've been since you turned into a physiology major over here tonight.
If you want to tell me what that does physiologically,
I don't know, but I do know this.
If you knock out 10 burpees,
this small person small prescription,
you will not be tired for at least a half an hour.
You're not going to be 10 burpees and then feel tired.
If you can't do it,
I can tell you why physiologically.
Indorphins get released.
Oh, there's stuff.
Adrenal.
Like when you know you're going to do physical activity,
when you know it, you have a job.
I'm not saying a huge adrenaline.
Just a little bit.
You get it.
I don't know.
Yeah.
A little bit.
Just still going part of it.
So that's those are some tips, I guess,
for alertness throughout the day that I use.
Yeah.
And forget not a better early in the morning.
Hey, and by the way, go to bed earlier at night.
Yeah.
Go to bed earlier at night.
I go to bed like I'm using around 11.
I don't recommend that.
I don't recommend going to bed at 11 and getting up at 430.
No, I don't recommend that.
I recommend going to bed when you get tired.
Shut your computer off.
Stop looking at the interwebs and go to sleep.
You know what?
Go read an actual book because that makes you tired.
Yeah.
That will make you tired.
That's like the opposite of burpees.
Go read, go read a book.
You know, and just sit there and you will get more tired.
Yeah.
Unless like a real exciting or interesting book.
Of course, of course, don't read blood meridian before you go to bed.
But and you're because you're a fast sleep fast sleeper.
Yeah.
You don't need that much sleep.
The no sleep thing that'll get you so quick.
You know, promptly put you into a crash the next day.
Yeah.
I don't know.
You can power it.
Well, I don't know.
If I can go the next man, I've even when you had the latest little baby.
Yeah.
You came in here on a couple hours sleep.
You're like rolled in here, ready to record.
You sat here.
You got after it.
Yeah.
It's true.
And there's all these different little things.
Doesn't that make you realize?
Yeah.
It makes you realize how much more you can do.
I think a lot of people.
It's like this.
And I don't want to go into this full subject right now.
But the other day, I did a 72 hour fast.
Right.
No food for 72 hours.
And there's a bunch of reasons we could talk about it.
Maybe we'll do it on later podcast.
I will say this though.
What one small thing.
If you go 72 hours without eating, it recalibrates.
You're hunger meter.
Because we just think, oh, I haven't had a donut in two hours.
I'm starving.
Like no, you're not starving.
You're not even hungry.
No, I'm close to hungry.
So recalibrate that thing.
Do a fast.
Even if you just don't eat for 24 hours, you realize that most of your hunger signals that are coming
to your brain are lies.
Yeah.
And I'm not saying they're lies like, oh, don't eat.
But I'm saying you don't need to eat and how liberating is it.
I was having so much fun.
I was on this fast.
And I'm just like, don't even need food.
I don't need food.
I don't need to eat.
That's the ultimate control.
Right.
What?
I don't need food.
Food is food is food is food is food is if you're weak.
You know what I mean?
It's that type of you get that mentality going.
And then guess what?
Now you're going to travel day.
And you go, oh, man.
I'm going to be in the airport all day today.
And I don't know what I'm going to eat.
Don't eat anything.
Yep.
You're too capable.
You can go 72 hours.
It's a matter of fact, you can go like 30 days without food.
So going three days is not that big of a deal.
It's not even that big of a deal.
Yeah.
I did when I just did this 72 hour fast.
It was just not like I did everything normal.
I went to Jiu Jitsu.
I did work out of it.
It's quats.
It did pull up.
Everything was normal.
It's not that big crazy deal.
Just we just get so accustomed to just feed in the machine all the time.
And you got to have a, you know, you got to have a meal.
Every six hours.
And it's so at our fingertips.
Yeah.
But it's also you.
This is what I realize.
It's so inconvenient to have to eat all the time.
Oh man.
You know, you're not.
You're not.
So it's kind of nice to eat.
I don't want today.
Guess what?
But a big old stake on.
Get after it.
And yeah.
I mean, and again, hey, there's all kinds of people.
I mean, there's people that know.
This is one of the reasons I don't like talking about this particular topic.
Um, it's because there's a lot of people that like study this and know
a lot about this and not all of these facts.
So if I go into the research, well, I know the facts too, but I don't, I can't
I can't say they're called them, right?
I don't have the in-depth knowledge that Peter Ratia has on fasting.
You know what I mean?
Or Dom Dagestino.
Those guys, they're pH.
They're doctors.
I'm not a doctor.
Yeah.
I'm a knucklehead.
That was.
And another thing's people, what, you know, what did you do to prepare for your fasting?
Because I did need.
Yeah, I was with, I was with, late and we were on a trip and we had like a lunch.
And then we did a gig that night and I liked to eat before I do a gig and then after that,
we stayed up a little bit and did some work and then woke up in the morning at an early
flight and then I came home and I wanted to train so I worked out and I got done with that
and I went and did something else and the next thing I knew was 24 hours.
Like, all right, you know what?
The next thing I didn't feel too hungry says I don't know.
And it just held on.
So it wasn't no preparation.
Just got after it.
Again, people don't do this.
This is anecdotal.
Check with a physician or whatever you got to do don't listen to me.
Yeah, as far as like a recommendation you should do.
Because, you know, you are different and some to our fast.
Okay, I did it, man.
But I think really kind of the point that you're making or one of them anyway, I think is absolutely true.
So you're, you know, a lot of it is like habitual hunger.
But it goes beyond just like psychological habits.
It's like physiological.
It's like, okay, I'm used to getting food every four hours.
So when the four hour mark comes around physiologically,
your stomach can be like, right, my food.
Your mouth is everywhere in my food.
And then after a while, if you're like, hey, you don't get food this time, your stomach's okay.
Sometimes we don't get food.
Yeah.
So let's kind of act right, you know.
And then when the food comes, okay, we'll do that when that happens.
The recalibration is real though because then after I started eating again and then
the next thing I go, oh, I'm feeling hungry.
I'm going to eat something.
I'm actually not hungry.
So why am I eating?
Why am I eating it from not hungry?
Yeah.
Yeah. That's in my mind is controlling me when I should be controlling my mind.
You know?
So and that's another thing where you're, you're,
there's nothing new, right?
Your mind is so strong or whatever.
So you can trick yourself and it's goes for sleep too.
So if you think that you got nine hours of sleep, you'll be way less tired than,
okay, let's say two people, exactly.
I don't know what to do it.
Right.
I don't know what life experience would ever.
One guy believes the next morning,
okay, they both got eight hours sleep.
One guy believes he only got four hours sleep.
And one guy believes he got 10 hours sleep.
Typical plasibo scenario.
Yeah, but that's how your mind knows.
It knows. Like basically it's your mind accommodating what it thinks the stimulus is.
So the other twin, the four hour sleep believer,
he's going to be way more tired.
And he's going to be like, dang, where's that nap?
I was looking for it.
I need it whatever.
But the other one, imagine if you woke up every day and you were like,
I only got four hours of sleep and I'm going to crush today.
Exactly right there.
I actually believe I work better on less sleep.
How you like them apples?
Exactly.
And that's really, that's what was going to be my point there.
Were you like, you can told you, I've told you that before.
Yeah.
I've told, so I've told Echo before that when we were getting ready to record the podcast,
the day before I record the podcast, that night,
I like to sleep less like four hours.
Because I feel like it sharpens.
I'll tell you what it did to be quite honest with me.
What I think it does, it brings it.
It brings my emotions a little closer to the surface.
So like you feel like, I'm kind of under attack.
So I better, like, I better, like, part-knut right now.
I better, like, get my 360.
No, it's not like that.
It's like, no, this is what it is.
I can get more, like, when I'm reading something,
I'm more focused on it.
I'm more into it.
Like actively?
Yeah, because I think when I'm well rested,
I'm like a, like a rock solid, right?
I'm just a bird.
Oh, yeah.
When I'm a little, when I sleep less,
I'm a little bit more exposed.
I'm a little bit more vulnerable, right?
Mentally.
And I need that.
Right, man.
Because otherwise I just become very,
um, detached.
I become very detached.
And it's, you know, so I want it when I come in here,
I want to be on the, I want to be on the fringe a little bit.
Yeah, that's what I'm going to be exposed.
I want to be walking in here, me like, man,
this is going to be, this is intense.
This thing, not a walk in the park today.
No, this is going to be hard to let me see.
So I want it.
Yes, I want to be stressed a little bit when I come in here.
Yeah.
And I can dig it.
And I feel, I always feel like a blanket to sink thing in
you, Jitu, I feel better when I'm stressed and when I'm a little bit more,
yeah, a little bit more stressed a little bit more tension,
a little bit more pressure on myself.
I want to be there.
Yeah, I don't want to be there all the time.
I'll tell you what, just so everybody knows, there's some days where I'm tired.
When I'm just tired and I just, sometimes I just need a power nap,
so bad of a car, I'm literally falling asleep.
You know, and I hate that.
That's a horrible feeling.
But you know what, elevate your feet, set it on a proper eight minutes,
boom, you're going to wake up feeling like Superman.
You're kind of like when people hit themselves before they go lift.
Because it weighed, you mean they like slap themselves?
Yeah, for sure.
So the surface looks like, oh, he's getting fired up, but yeah, why is he getting fired up for the exact same reason that you're talking about?
Because if it's like, boom, like, I'm getting these things where I got to kind of bounce back from, right?
I'm under attack.
You're going to legitimate adrenaline rush, too.
Right.
So physiologically, it's the same exact sequence right there.
But you're just doing it consciously.
And instead of slaps, it's lack of sleep.
Yes.
Or what have you?
There you go.
That's, um,
I don't know what to tell you.
And everyone's going to attack me on social media for not sleeping, not eating.
And all that.
Yeah.
Well, sorry.
I don't know what to tell you.
I appreciate your advice.
I know I should, I do know I should sleep more.
I do know I should eat, you know, better.
I'm sorry.
What does that mean even me?
I don't know.
I know.
I should.
The word should.
What does that even mean?
You should.
It, a joke. Don't be you anymore.
Well, it's true.
It'd be different than you.
That's what that's.
Well, actually actually the point out.
The, what I was going to say earlier is just like,
what you're saying, the, like,
you're not citing all this science and making claims about like,
how this is going to benefit you or nothing like that.
That's not what you're doing.
It's, it is anecdotal.
And I think the point is that if you push yourself through certain situations,
and you prove it to yourself that you can function just fine with,
I don't know, five hours sleep rather than eight.
One or two times or whatever or however,
and you know that you can do that.
Like, really, you know, we talked about this before where you get kind of dependent on certain things.
And then to the point where you believe that you can't function without it,
whether it be sleep, whether it be coffee in the morning,
whatever or eating every four hours.
Like when I was really into like weightlifting and bodybuilding type stuff,
I remember thinking, man, I got to, I got to hurry up and eat.
It's four hours or whatever.
And then kind of later on in life, man, I've got, like, I haven't eaten yet today.
And it's late in the day.
I'm fine.
You're not.
I'm not losing my game.
Yeah, whatever games, whatever games.
But games game, whatever.
So once you prove it to yourself, it's like, if you stay up all night,
when you have worked the next day and you do your work,
when you go to bed, you can be like, hey, if I had to, I could do that again.
That is another thing that I enjoy about pushing those envelopes is,
it feels really good to go to bed when you've been awake for a long time.
It feels really good to eat a meal when you have an eat for a while.
You appreciate it more.
Yeah, that's true, but that's kind of a cycle way of invoking appreciation.
Okay.
My opinion.
Understood.
Mixed question.
Oh, back to the iron swan.
That's it.
Yeah.
That's the song.
Yes.
Just a reminder.
Give it a try.
No.
The sword.
Next question.
What's the best way to handle awful random people?
Say, bunch of intimidating thugs on a bus or a violent, scary drunk person?
Well, and there's even more awful random people out there that you might need to look out for.
I think this is a, you know, obviously you got people that are pointed criminals that are coming after you.
You got terrorists that might be coming after you or just trying to do random acts of mass violence.
So those are those are particular type.
I think that this is a question directed for more of of something that could easily happen to people.
Right.
Random people that are being jerks or thugs or people that are drunk or higher would have brought.
Okay.
So obviously, what do we want to do?
We want to be prepared.
So to start with, you want to be in a legal physical condition.
So I mean, you want to work out. You want to be ready to handle yourself.
Physically, you want to know how to fight.
That means you need to train.
Do you do boxing, mojta wrestling.
You, if you're in a high crime area, you're in a high threat area.
And you think this stuff is really going to happen out there.
Then guess what?
You need to get a firearm.
You need to learn how to shoot a firearm.
You need to train with the firearm.
You need to understand the ramifications of utilizing a firearm.
And then you need to carry it so you can protect yourself.
And those same things go, if you decide you're going to carry any kind of weapon.
Whether it's pepper spray or a mace or an ass or a knife.
Anything that you're going to carry, you better know what you're doing.
You need to prepare with it.
So that's what you need to do to be prepared.
Okay, that's, that's what.
And and and and and and you don't have said this before.
I said it on the Sam Harris podcast.
If you, if you do these things, if you work on your physical condition,
if you work on your fighting, if you work on your shooting, if you work on your,
your weapon skills, and you never have to use them.
Great.
I will still say it has not been wasted time.
It has been time that has made you a better person.
It's imposed discipline on you.
It's gotten you better physical conditioning.
It's just good for you.
So regardless, you should be training in these type of situations.
Now, once you get to this type of situation, first of all, how did you get that?
Because we need to have situational awareness.
Right? How are you not paying attention to what's going on around you?
You need to pay attention to what's going on around you.
And then you watch for these scenarios that could unfold and you avoid them.
Period.
So, so how are you getting stuck on a bus with a bunch of maniacs?
Right?
There's something.
When they got on, you got off.
That's a real simple.
Right?
Or you go to get on and you see these knuckleheads, you walk right back off.
I mean, that's that's pretty easy.
And all there's a bunch of knuckleheads walking down the street towards you.
Cool.
Cross the street walking on the other side.
Situation awareness.
Oh, you hear them coming up behind you?
Cool.
Step off.
Cross the street.
Avoid.
We want to be have situational awareness.
That's going to solve that should solve 99% of your problems.
Okay.
Is being aware of your surroundings, understanding your situation.
Planning.
What about just simple planning? Like, where are you going?
When are you going to come home?
You know, if you took a subway into the city at night and you know you're going to come and home.
Late at night and you're alone.
And you are suspect of what's happened.
Maybe you get an Uber instead of riding the subway.
It's just planning that comes into play as well to avoid these situations.
Now, if you do get caught in these situations,
here's a couple recommendations.
Okay.
My number one is to kind of do your best to detach from from the scenario.
Right. So you got, let's say you're on a bus.
And there's a bunch of people acting crazy.
And they jumped on right after you got on and you couldn't get off in time.
So now you're on the bus with them.
I want you to detach from them.
So that means you're not looking at them.
You're not staring at them.
You're not being all intimidated.
You want to just detach.
Just do what you would normally do.
You know, everyone carries a phone these days.
Break out your phone.
Start looking at your phone.
Pull out your paper.
Start looking at your paper.
Study if you don't have either one of those to look outside.
Look at the passing.
Just don't enter their world.
Don't become a part of their thing that they have going on.
Because what they want you is they want you to make eye contact.
What they want you is glance over them.
What they want you to do is enter their world.
Because a lot of times, he's knuckleheads that they're in their own world.
And you actually have to penetrate their world.
If you want to get in there.
So what you want.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to remain.
I'm not going to, I'm not going to coward though.
There's a difference.
Okay.
Because if you give the impression of you're just like countering and scared,
well, then there, that's that's entering their world.
And they're going to recognize that.
But if you're just, hey, sitting here just doing what you normally do.
And it's not a big deal.
You do this all the time.
You don't care about them.
Don't care about me.
Leave me alone.
That's, that's where I'm going.
Now, if for whatever reason I make some kind of eye contact.
Right.
Now I made the eye contact.
I've entered their world.
I'm going to go ahead and give them a little head nod.
You know, just a little, just a little regular head nod.
Like I would do with you.
If I saw you on the street, you know, just a little respectful,
little head nod.
And then I'm going to go right back to what I was doing.
I'm going to go right back out of their world.
I acknowledge their world.
I'm not going to give a bunch of, I'm not going to look scared.
But I'm not going to look aggressive.
I'm just going to be respectful.
A little head nod.
You know, if we have a good night.
It's good.
And then go, go back to your business.
Again, I just want to detach from them.
That's my attitude.
I wanted to detach from them.
And this avoids them saying, you know, like if they're looking at you and you don't look back
or they're just like bearing down on you.
Hey, you know, hey, why aren't you?
Why are you ignoring me or whatever?
You too cool for me or something like that.
So sometimes you go, you know, look, little head nod.
It's all good.
If, if now if they do start, now see it, I'm escalating this.
So they're escalating this.
So now if they do start to escalate this thing,
it like, like, you know, what are you looking at?
Or one of those things?
It's just again.
What you're trying to do is you're trying to de-escalate without being appearing
vulnerable, you know, so maybe it's just, you know, hey, no issue here.
You know, just something simple like that.
No, I'm good.
Um, like, what are you doing?
Just riding the bus home.
You know what I mean, just real matter of fact, just didn't go trying to get back.
But, you know, you might want to just even try and and connect a little connection.
Instead of I'm trying to go home, because that might piss some people off because they don't have a home.
Or their home is a bad place.
So what might be better than saying that is, you know, I just got done with work.
Now you're just a work man, right?
Of course you might be doing something that doesn't have a job or lost their jobs.
So I'm saying you're not going to come up with a great.
But my point here is just you're just going to try and make simple, non-confrontational statements.
That don't give them anything to grab onto because that's what they want.
They want something, they want something to grab onto, you know,
that's what they're looking for.
So you don't want to let that happen.
Now things can still continue to escalate.
You know, you get someone that's determined to be a jerk or determined to be hostile
to determine the aggressive now I'll tell you that if you train, then you work out,
and you do do do do do do do do, and you have skills.
People know it.
People people that are belligerence generally can tell.
Even in a drunken state when you square off with someone or you look at someone
and they have an attitude of like look, I do this all the time.
I'm good.
You want to fight them here.
Not saying that, but just a look and people can tell.
If they're real troublemakers, they can tell.
Now sometimes that's not a good thing because I mean,
you're going to do the challenge, you know?
So you got to watch out for that.
So I think that that's right, even though on the internet,
it might seem like it's telling a different story.
You know, it's like, oh, guy confronts the wrong guy,
you know, guy street felt confronts,
you just semester or something and then it shows that they actually
fought.
So it kind of seems like, oh, no, they don't know.
Obviously out there.
No, they, but that's rare, man.
And that's why it makes the internet.
So it's rare, typically, yeah, and this is no guarantee.
But I'm the same.
I could tell even before I started doing GJ2.
You know, I could tell if somebody was ready to rumble.
I have, I think it's like, I was ready to rumble.
No fight training to a guy who was belittred to me directly.
Right.
Terry was there.
We were working and all I did was act like I knew.
Yeah.
I didn't know by the way.
Act like I knew an in front of everybody.
I was like, oh, hey, I'm sorry, man.
It's my bad.
I belittled a little bit bigger than me too.
And he just said it, but I was ready to,
I was ready to do the best fighting I could.
Because it was kind of go time at that point.
Yeah.
He was like, you know, the kind of guy where he's talking.
He was like, yeah, man, I'm from Chicago.
And he's like rubbing against me in my face kind of not like,
I want to fight you, but just like, like,
like, like, almost like a dogwood, you know,
and rubbing against me.
And then whatever, you know,
I made like, okay, we're about to fight.
Took on my jacket.
I real quick or whatever.
And, um, and it was like, all right.
I think this go just like how you're saying,
no, just real matter.
That calm real matter.
Yeah.
You do this all the time.
Yep.
And the thing, I understand that it is on right now.
Understand.
And then the guy and he's surprisingly,
it's not surprising.
Hey, my bad, my bad bro, my bad, my bad,
my bad, my bad, my bad, my bad, my bad,
in front of everybody.
It's not surprising because people that act like that
are weak and they're insecure and they're acting on that.
And so when somebody stands up to them,
and they look kind of and think,
this is good, my an actually no on a fight.
Yeah.
And then that's what happens.
And by the way, when you do train all the time,
you do know how to fight.
And then it is matter of fact.
You're like, yeah, all of all fight you.
Yeah, hold on.
That's the best feeling.
Yeah.
It's it's it's a good feeling to know that you can handle yourself.
Now.
Okay.
So now this continues to escalate.
And, you know,
if you just try and keep your distance from people,
you don't want to let them get close.
You don't know they got a knife.
You don't know what kind of disease they are.
You just want to keep away from them.
Yeah.
But eventually you might not be able to back up anymore.
You might not be able to keep any distance.
Watch their hands.
Keep as much distance as you can.
Eventually you got to put your hands up and kind of a non-confrontational way to protect your face.
To protect those soccer punch that's coming.
You know, you put your hands up just in a non-confrontational way up and up around your head.
And continue to de-escalate.
Hey man, I'm out here.
Don't don't want every problems.
You know, I'm not looking for an issue.
I don't know what your issue is,
but I don't have any issue with you.
I'm just trying to head home for more.
You know, one of those things.
And finally, if you get to a point where you have no choice,
well, then you utilize the skills that you have.
You hit hard, hit fast, you know,
start hiding until the threat is neutralized.
And then you get away.
And that's, in order to be able to do that,
you know, go to step one, prepare.
Prepare.
Yeah, that some, you're a,
the 99% of situations will be avoided if you're just away.
Most important thing.
That's the most important thing.
Yeah, that's a huge deal.
So true.
Yeah, we would much rather have you do that.
Because any of these situations,
I could go out.
I'm pretty well prepared for anything.
I could go out tonight and have some guy square off with me.
And as I'm getting ready to fight him,
his buddy cracks me in the head with a, with a bottle and kills me.
That could happen tonight.
Yeah.
You know, that could happen at a restaurant tonight.
That could happen.
Yeah.
So what am I going to try and do?
I'm trying to avoid it.
The minute you square off with somebody,
you're now, you're now a target for all his friends.
By the way, I've been in some bar fights where the idiot,
that is being belligerent,
doesn't have the common sense or doesn't have the sense that he's surrounded by,
you know, by my friends.
Yeah.
And you're just thinking, you don't even, you're doomed.
So luckily, the guys that I hang out with are pretty honorable people
that aren't just going to, you know, crush somebody's skull.
But you don't always get, that's no guarantee.
That's no guarantee.
There's murders every day in America.
Yeah.
And they're not planned all of them.
Sell them or they plan.
It's gonna face book.
I want to say, I think I was get confused with the name
because like a lot of people will be like,
hey, echoes, you know, and ask me questions in regards to this podcast.
So as opposed to the other podcast.
Oh, this podcast.
But I don't want to be like, okay, he asked me,
but no, it was really nice.
Anyway, so a guy asked me, like,
this scenario was used at a bar, part of your something.
And guys are being disrespectful to him and his wife,
or girlfriend or something.
And then he's like, I know the high road.
I know the right thing to do, quote unquote,
is to be done with it, you know,
to leave the situation.
But when you leave, you feel like a little, you know, like you was down.
That's really powerful feeling that you don't want.
So like, what do you do, man?
How do you just, how do you reconcile it?
Or should I fight or under certain circumstances?
Should I just fight for the honor kind of thing?
Like, what's the thing?
And so I've always really looked at it this way,
especially if you're kind of like,
if you have mental kind of control over the situation where you can be like,
okay, I'm gonna fight this guy or what?
So when you choose to engage,
you want to fight the guy, you're gonna say,
you know what, you said the wrong thing to me,
and I'm gonna square off her to my wife or whatever, you know?
So I'm gonna choose to square off.
Now all you, what you did use,
you took on all the potential results of that,
you took all that on.
Even if you win the fight, you get arrested,
like everything, as opposed to
taking on all the potential results,
probably, you know,
it would that come with not engaging,
which include going home safe,
your wife's safe, everybody's safe,
wake up tomorrow just like you with the other day,
and then compare that to jail.
I'm injured in some way.
I can't, you know,
I can function less tomorrow,
if I even make it on tomorrow, you know,
death, all this stuff.
When you kind of consider the outcomes that you want,
and the reason you're gonna make one decision over the other,
it kind of, it comes real clear,
even though at the time it's so powerful,
because you're like,
man, I don't want to waste out in front of everybody,
or my wife, you know,
my honor in front of my wife,
by your wife once you leave,
your wife doesn't want you to be like,
you know, my husband got bar fighting,
who, like, I'm so proud of him, you know,
you kids are like, I'm glad you're home, Dad.
Yeah, I'm glad you're not home, you know.
That's another thing that comes with,
I think with training all the time,
is we all know what we're going to stand.
Like, I mean,
if there's a person that's going to beat me in a bar fight,
I know him.
Like, it's a famous fighter,
it's a famous Gigi Tuberat,
someone that is a known public figure
that is known for fighting,
that's like,
who's going to give,
if it's a civilian,
that doesn't train,
I mean, they don't,
they're not going to stand a chance.
Now if for the friends jump in,
of course, you're not some issues.
Well, but yes,
yes,
the best thing to do is avoid it.
But does your wife,
when your wife knows that you train every day,
that you get after it every day,
that you're physically fit,
physically strong,
and knows that you could destroy that person,
does she look down on you when you walk out of there?
No, she's like,
well,
I'm glad I married an actual man,
instead of an idiot.
Right.
And it's not,
that big of a deal,
like,
hey, bro,
if you want to fight here,
come to this gym,
I'll be there tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
Yeah, it's real good.
But I'm not going to fight out here,
I'm going to get arrested,
but you know,
or ensued by you after you're after I put you to sleep,
and then I make it so you can't use your arms anymore,
forever.
Yeah.
And even that,
I mean,
really looks really,
it made it even doing that.
Like, hey,
you want to fight,
I do want to fight you,
right?
But I, you know,
I'm a smart fighter,
right?
You know,
even that,
that's like,
that's kind of what's good.
Yeah,
Exactly.
As far as moves go,
although,
hey,
look,
if someone does that and post it on the internet or something like that,
or comes,
come on,
let's face it.
We all want to see that.
Oh,
part of us wants to see that.
Yeah,
we want to see the bully get beat up.
that's pretty common.
But really,
at the end of the day,
that's not the decision.
The decision isn't.
You're right.
Because it goes back,
what I said that earlier,
question,
if you're securing your manhood,
then it's not that big of a deal to go.
Dude,
you're drunk.
Carry on.
I'm out of here with my wife.
We're going to go back to a house and carry on with our lives,
like normal people.
You can find another person to get in a drunk fight with and end up in jail.
Let me ask you this.
You can be honest,
even as a full grown,
secure man.
If you found yourself in that scenario,
and you're like,
not me and my wife,
we're going to go home.
They're still a small party.
Of course.
Well,
well,
especially when you enjoy fighting.
Yeah.
You know what?
You know,
one of the guys at the gym,
who's,
um,
brown belt Mike,
you just didn't train much when you're there.
Anyways.
Mike.
Dude,
he usually goes in the morning.
Yeah.
He's usually there anyway.
Anyways,
he had somebody,
like say something to,
no,
somebody,
somebody like smacked his girlfriend's ass.
Like,
like he brought his girlfriend into the bar.
Yeah.
And he does more time.
Of course.
And he's a bad ass dude.
He walks in the bar.
And this guy just straight up,
just bam.
Slaps his girlfriend's ass.
And he like turned around.
Boom.
One, two,
to the head.
Drop the guy.
Need to the face out.
It was like,
yep,
boom.
Got arrested.
He paid $8,000 or something.
And did like 72 hours in jail.
I mean, it was legit.
Like,
and he talks about it.
I mean,
just to show you like a different,
and that's why,
like his attitude,
you know,
I talked about it.
He's like,
yeah,
you know,
the guy crossed the line and
then I had to pull him down.
Yeah.
And it was like,
yeah,
okay.
Yeah.
And that's an awesome story.
By the way,
it gives me like a for real.
Like,
Mike,
yeah,
the man.
Yeah.
But,
but let's face it though.
That wasn't the right move.
As far as before you do it.
Yeah.
I mean,
you're right.
I don't know what could have happened.
Yes.
We know what the actual outcome was.
And it was like $8,000.
And it's wife.
girlfriend.
Okay.
Just a girlfriend.
No, no,
mess with bikes.
Girl, man.
Well,
I'm just saying if you have a wife,
and then I'm talking about it,
if you have like a kid's the $8,000.
So there's a series more detrimental.
Yeah, that's true.
Um,
but,
you know,
so I'm saying,
this is why you treat people with respect.
Yeah.
You know,
because otherwise,
you never know who you're messing with.
And Mike doesn't look like he's big intimidating.
Guy by the chance.
What does he weigh?
170.
I'm thinking of a different guy.
I realized it.
But what Mike's 170.
He's tough.
He's a tough bastard, too.
I mean,
on the mat.
He's tough.
But he's like 170.
And you know what?
He's a brown belt.
And you just do really good with a key.
Andy wrestled.
Like he wrestled.
So yeah.
And he's any train more time.
So he's just a tough dude.
Yeah.
And you don't know who you're messing with.
And boom.
But the interesting thing is.
And you know this.
I know this.
When you make eye contact with another person in a situation like that, you already know
if they train or not.
You're like, oh, this guy trains for sure.
I'm in for it.
You know, it's going to be it's going to be on.
Yeah.
That's awareness from the training.
But still.
Awesome story.
Don't do that.
Yeah.
I know.
Don't do it.
Mike.
Keep it up.
Just kidding.
Yeah.
Mike.
Don't mess with Mike's girl.
Jockel.
Were you very disciplined as a kid?
And was there a set day or moment when you saw how important discipline was and decided to do it?
Well, as a kid, I think I was for the most part a kid.
I was not so extremely disciplined kid.
I was pretty stubborn when it came to certain things, which may be some kind of an early
immature form of discipline, you know, just being hardheaded.
But I think as I got older, I saw the first thing I remember along these lines is seeing
a lack of discipline around me.
I didn't identify it as people having discipline.
I saw like a lack of discipline.
I saw weakness.
I saw drugs.
I saw alcohol.
I saw laziness.
And I started to get after it a little bit, right?
A little bit, a little tiny bit.
But there was no role models.
There was no internet.
There was no guidance.
I didn't have the sense to go to the library and find Bob Hoffman's book.
How to be healthy and strong?
Like I didn't know to do that.
I didn't have the sense to do that.
And so we did some basic things.
So you know what I mean?
Some push-ups.
You know?
And the push-up workouts that I did when I was 13 years old are laughable.
Laphable.
I mean, I think if I did, you know, a set of 50 push-ups.
I was cornered a boom on the man, right?
No, you are the man, 13.
Yeah.
50.
And we did some silly little kind of barbell, dumbbell, circuit training kind of thing.
Now I always like the military.
I recognize that as a, some kind of a trade of discipline in there.
And I looked up to military veterans.
I knew one Marine Corps drill instructor.
And if you know anything about Marine Corps drill instructors.
So now we're talking 85, 86, 87.
There wasn't any wars going on.
But you know, when you're a kid, you're just like, oh, he's a Marine Corps drill instructor.
He fit the part.
He was just perfect Marine Corps drill instructor, which most Marine Corps drill instructors are pretty damn perfect.
It's a incredibly incredibly honed job.
That's very well choreographed and very structured.
And it's a very fine real tight.
Real tight situation.
If you could mirror in court, drill instructor.
And I knew one, right, when I was a kid.
And I just like, he was like a god, right, this guy is a Marine Corps.
And of course he had, I think he had like a 68 commero.
So you know, he was just like, just the man.
And so now, so I got that going on.
And then then there was the hardcore bands that I started listening to.
And they seemed to have some kind of, there was something there, right?
I recognized something there.
I recognized something with black flag.
I recognized something with,
I've been called slap shot.
I recognized something with the crow mags.
And I saw there was something in there.
And I, I, I couldn't, I can't, I didn't know what it was,
but it was some kind of strength, right?
And some kind of discipline was in there.
I, I didn't put it all together though.
And there was no sort of unified way to go down this path.
It didn't, I didn't find that.
And I don't know if I found it, if it, what it would look like to me,
you know, maybe you could say that that path was the Boy Scouts, right?
The Boy Scouts are a disciplined group of individuals that learn how to hike and hunt.
I mean, so was that it?
I don't know, I maybe I didn't identify that or I didn't have the right personality.
Because I was kind of non-conformist, right?
I mean, it's a little bit, you know, a little bit of a rebel.
So I didn't put it all together.
And I had some little flashes of like being hardcore,
where some of the things I did that would be like, you know, kind of getting after it.
Some really minor ways, some some, some minimalistic level of discipline.
But it wasn't until I started training in earnest to join the Navy that I started to,
what we could recognize now as getting after it a little bit.
You know, it's an, and again, it's nothing compared to what people do now.
What definitely, you know, now we're talking 1989.
I was running through marshes and being covered in mud,
and I was swimming in the ocean, and I was doing pull-ups and push-ups and dips and sit-ups.
And again, it's nothing compared to what I do now,
or even what everybody does now.
But I was doing what I could with what I knew at the time.
And I didn't really have any idea of what I,
or really what people in general were capable of.
Like, I just didn't know.
I didn't know.
I never would have thought a good pull-up workout is 500,000 pull-ups.
I wouldn't have thought that. You know, for me, I did three sets of pull-ups.
And I was kind of the man, you know.
So I just, I just didn't, didn't know.
And I guess you could say I didn't even have,
I didn't know to even explore those,
those outer limits of what I was capable of, you know, which is a bummer.
Um, now, I don't see you got to remember.
I didn't even know another person that did pull-ups.
There wasn't like pull-up bars around.
There wasn't, you know, I'm out in the woods somewhere.
The woods in New England. There's no pull-ups.
People aren't like, hey, how many pull-ups can you?
I never heard that question.
And I didn't know what he would have slammed in the open ocean.
I didn't know what he would have did push-up workouts, right?
I don't know. I was just in the sticks.
And so when I joined the military,
I was a blank slate, really, for all practical purposes.
It was really easy. They say, you do this.
This is what you do. And you get advanced.
This is what you do to be ready. This is what you do.
And I realized very quickly that the harder you worked,
that the more disciplined you were,
the easier, your life was, the easier, your job was,
your day was, the easier physical activities would get.
And when I got into the teams,
and really going through buds,
when you're going through buds and when I finally met guys that were going to buds,
we started doing a hundred pull-ups.
And we started doing a hundred and fifty pull-ups.
We started doing two hundred pull-ups to work out.
And then it was like, oh wow, you can do a lot of stuff.
That was getting ready to go to buds, and you go to buds.
And you realize that people,
it's not this this individual, like,
spiritual awakening.
Like, no, you just realize, hey,
you can do a lot of pull-ups. People can't.
It's not that big of a deal. And everybody knows you can find that out.
And then you don't need to go to buds figure that out.
You can figure that out. Just, I'm telling you right now.
You know what I mean? And all you need is to have that knowledge.
But I continue to realize that being disciplined,
all these things waking up earlier and working hard and training hard
and keeping your gear squared away and studying the material that we were supposed to know.
I realize that that work, that discipline made life easier and it made us freer.
Made me freer.
And the more time I spent in the teams,
the more this came embedded in my head and not only as an individual
that I realized this, but I realized this very quickly.
We're not very quickly, but as soon as I started moving in leadership positions,
I realized that the more disciplined a squad was,
the more disciplined a little team was,
the better that squad or that particular was going to be.
And that's kind of where the evolution, the evolution of it.
Human, it's that whole process that I'm finally, I don't know if it's finally,
but right now it's starting to become clear where the whole, you know,
you're going to pay the price, you know,
at some point you're going to pay the price for your actions.
So if you're going to, like, let's say I'm going to get in shape,
you know,
you're committing to working out every day.
That's you paying a certain price.
Like this, having the discipline to do it, you're going to pay the price.
We can early, it's not comfortable working out every day,
it's not comfortable.
You're going to pay a little price right there.
The next day where the, you know,
in regards to the results of that workout,
you're not paying the price, you're reaping kind of rewards.
You can not pay the price early with the workout and stuff.
You still got to that tab to still outstanding.
So when you balance do, yeah, so when it comes results time,
there that's, that's when you're going to pay your little price there.
Your body, your health, whatever.
At some point you're going to have to pay the price.
Pay now or pay later.
Yeah, man. So I will pay now.
Pay now, you get way more benefit.
Because like no one remembers, well, we do.
We, I don't remember and take pleasure in remembering the time I skipped that workout.
Because I wasn't feeling like doing it, you know.
Like that doesn't provide a sense of pleasure in my life to think back on those days, you know.
Yeah, it's not good.
And at the same time when I think of like the detriment of doing the workout,
when I didn't feel like it, that doesn't, that's not a bad memory to me, you know.
When I do think back of like, and or think even now,
like the result of being in better shape than the average person or going to do just to not gasing or whatever.
Bringing in all the groceries at one time.
It's face it, that's something.
That is a sense of pleasure that I have the freedom to be able to do that when I want, you know.
Yeah.
And you know what else is interesting about this is sometimes I hear this.
And you did this a couple times tonight, right?
People go, well, yeah, but you're a dog.
Like as if I'm as if I'm not a normal person, but I'm not.
Yeah, but I'm saying like, you know, I just kind of went through like the story.
And it's pain's a pretty clear picture that I'm a pretty normal person.
Yeah.
Right.
It's pretty normal.
But I made decisions along the way that maybe weren't normal.
And that maybe opened the doors to being a little bit not normal.
Yeah.
But their choices that you can make.
So, so I'll have this with my kids too.
Or you know who else sometimes I'll have.
Them.
I would have friends.
We'll say.
Sure.
That would say, you know, well, yeah, that's you.
You know, like I said, no, if you want to win this fight, for instance, you want to win this fight.
You got to be going to do this. You got to get after this. You got.
Anyway, well, you know, it's not that easy.
And that's that's what you would do.
But you're you.
And that's, you know, it's almost like, yeah, it's unachievable.
Yeah, it doesn't apply to it.
And my kids will say that to me.
You know, my kids.
And I think it's actually a pretty big detriment that they think that I'm not that that.
Oh, I do it, but, but that's because I'm me.
And I'm, no, it's not true.
It's not true.
And so, you know, occasionally I hear people say that and I go, man, this isn't like,
I guess it's kind of like what we were talking about the other day with someone saying,
Oh, oh, that's a good picture you took.
What kind of camera did you use?
Well, it's kind of like that.
I'm like, you know, oh, I wake up early.
It doesn't, it's not just because you just give it it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Or I work out a lot.
Oh, did, because you're super motivated.
Right.
I was gifted.
Yeah, I just, I just, I'm born motivated.
Right.
No, actually, I'm a person.
And I grew up, you know, a person.
Yeah.
And so, but it makes it very clear that these are just choices you can make and you can get
a half grit totally true.
And I would say that it does, when I say,
well, anytime I would say consciously, meaningfully say, well, that's you is if I would be talking
about a way of achieving like the same thing.
Like you would do it this way.
I would try to do it this way kind of thing.
If I was confidence that I could get the results, you know, whatever that is.
But, um, when did I say it to you about you sleeping?
Yeah, you can do the four hours sleeping thing or so more so then you can do the four hour sleep
and still function.
I meant you're into the four hours five hour sleep thing.
Yeah.
But, and I realize there are some genetic points in there.
I believe, right?
Yeah, I believe that there are some genetic points in there.
I believe there are some genetic points in everything, right?
And I've told you this, I have one of my daughters who is most similar to me, both physically
and mentally, sleeps about the same as I do if not less.
Yeah.
I believe that there are some of my other daughters who is most physically and mentally, well,
physically more like my wife.
She sleeps a lot.
Yeah.
And so there is a, and my wife sleeps more than I do.
And so there is a genetic component to it.
I believe in our red articles and people send me you Twitter articles all the time.
Oh, you're one of these, you know, fast sleepers that 2% of the population all the
stuff.
And I'm just saying, okay, yeah, that's great.
But then people say, oh, well, you just work out every day because you're super motivated.
And then that's your, or you just change your jits all the time because you're just super motivated.
And it's like, okay, yeah.
Well, you don't want great.
Great.
Yeah.
I think you're absolutely correct.
And even with the sleeping thing, that is like because, okay, ultimately,
you don't have to sleep as much as the next person sure that's an advantage just because you have more
time, more time.
That's it.
It's not like, you know, someone would be like, hey, other than that reason be like, hey, it's cooler,
or it's somehow more beneficial for me to sleep five hours rather than my normal eight.
Like, so, I mean, that, put it this way.
Someone wants to choose to sleep four hours just because you do it.
That's kind of weird.
Yeah.
Now that being said, what's awesome is there are a bunch of people on the interwebs.
A bunch of badass troopers that have, our, I retweet almost all of these because people go,
hey, you know, I'm, I lost 32 pounds.
Hey, I lost 42 pounds.
Hey, I, you know, did my first squat today with 300 pounds.
And there's no difference in what they were doing before and what they're doing now fundamentally
in their, in their jeans or their, or their physiology, what they did is they decided to make
these decisions.
They decided that they were going to go out.
They decided they were going to step up their game.
They're going to decide they're going to wake up early.
They decided they're going to clean up their diet.
They decided they were going to get after it.
And when they do that, all of a sudden boom.
And you know what, you fast forward like six months and people will go, well, you
just do that because you're super motivated.
And they'll be, they'll be thinking, you know, no, I'm not.
I'm, I'm a person.
You know, and I choose to get after it.
You know, recommend you all choose to get after it.
And I encourage that.
And you know what, it's not easy.
It's not easy.
There's the nagging weakness that is pulling you down.
You know, you got a shot.
You're thinking, let's talk to my friend Anthony about this yesterday.
And I always mentioned this.
So decision making, right, we're wired this environment right now.
We're wired to not get after it, you know, brain.
We're wired for the short term payoff right now.
In times of scarcity, you know, I don't know if I'm into that.
But you're wired to you better get it while you can.
Food may rest.
Rett everything you better get it when you when you and your body
starts to adapt to that environment because it's been going on for so long.
So it's like, man, if you're tired, that's your body.
Telling you something, you got to get that rest.
You see some food, some fat, a lot of calories.
You know, fat sugar, a lot of energy.
You better get that.
You better eat it now.
Now physiologically.
You're like that.
And mentally, you're like that.
You're wired that way.
So my point.
I probably like discounting.
All that is is choosing the short term payoff over the long term payoff.
Oftentimes when the long term comes, you regret your short term payoff decision.
Most of the time.
Right.
Yeah.
So it's a spectrum.
You know, there's some, some things are more or less detrimental.
So discounting is when you choose that short term payoff.
You can trace back all your success in failures
to making that short term payoff decision over the long term payoff.
But here's the thing, here's my point.
It's rather odd.
You say it's not easy.
This is the fact.
It's not easy because you're not.
Why you have to learn.
You have to be trained out of discounting.
I've probably discounted.
You got to be trained out of it.
And one way or another, whether it's firm from somebody, from your environment, you're in.
You know, like if everyone's, if everyone's eating healthy around you, it's very unlikely that you're going to be like,
Oh, this is how you do it.
Okay.
I'm going to not do it.
I'm really unlikely.
So you can get trained by that way, but the point is you get, you have to be trained out of this way of thinking because you're wired for it.
And all it is is the short term payoff versus the long term payoff.
Like I said, you got to pay that price somewhere.
You might as well pay the price short term now and get the benefits for the long term.
You know, rather than discounting.
But we're wired against it.
So that's why it's not easy.
But it train yourself out of it, man.
You know how you train yourself out of it.
Do it yourself and get after it.
Get after it.
All right.
It's true though.
It's absolutely true.
Speaking of instinct.
Is it possible to train instinct and can we trust it wholly in fighting and in leadership?
Well, the first one, instinct is, is it's like a voice and it's a voice that you can listen to and it's a voice that you should listen to.
And you have to get to know your instincts, right? You have to get to know him.
You have to know how accurate they are and which ones you should listen to and which ones you shouldn't listen to.
And it's real.
Like with fighting, it's very obvious with fighting you train to a point that your instinct knows what to do.
So if someone gets in digging for an underhook on you, you swim to defend that underhook.
If someone gets the underhook boom, you put on the wizard, right?
Those are just instincts and it's good and it's good to have those instincts.
That's perfect.
Now, sometimes even in fighting your instincts are actually wrong.
And I'll give you a very good example of this is rolling with a guy by the name of James.
Nealson, you've been rolling the James before?
Many, many, many.
So James, black belt's been trained in forever.
He's got a different jujitsu, a different jujitsu, weird jujitsu.
It's weird. It's different.
And the thing that you have to remember when you're rolling with James is that your instincts are likely wrong.
It's crazy, but your instincts are likely wrong.
And I know that it's a blanket statement and it's actually true.
For instance, he wants you to pass garden get across side.
He wants you across side, which is crazy in jujitsu.
So your instinct to get past his garden, get across side and dig in deep with your head control on him and having his arm.
That's what he wants you to do because he has a whole series of moves that he does from there.
Now, much like we were talking earlier about a long, lengthy guy that does moves that no one's used to.
James does moves that people are not used to.
And the moves that he does capitalize on your instinct.
So for instance, when you trap his head from a cross side and you want to put your arm there and you put it there, that's your instinct.
He wants you to put his arm there because he's going to get a hold of it.
Trap it and he's got a sweep or a normal. He's going to set up from there.
So that's the thing.
You have to recognize and you have you can't just blank it, obey your instincts all the time because sometimes your instincts are going to be wrong.
That's the way it is.
And it is definitely the same thing in leadership.
And when using instincts in leadership, the first thing that you kind of have to do is you have to become aware of your instincts.
You have to pay attention to them and pay attention to what you're thinking and paying attention to what your instinct is and note your instinct.
And then look at the after the post-mortem and see if your instinct was correct or incorrect.
And then you've got to see how often you are right with your instinct and how often your instincts were wrong or what your natural biases are for instance.
You've got some people that are there instinct is too positive.
Right? Oh, you know, we'll be able to get this done and how often are you right about getting it done.
And then you've got some people out of two negative.
They're instinctive.
We'll never be able to get this done.
We shouldn't even go.
No, maybe you're wrong there.
There's some people instinctively.
They trust people too much.
They go, oh, echo.
I know he's going to handle what I'm just going to give him the project.
He's going to run with it.
He's got it.
And there's some people that instinctively don't trust enough and they go, man, I'm not going to echo.
So I can be able to handle this.
I got a micromanage.
And so those those two are examples of learning what your personal instinctive biases are so that you can calibrate them correctly.
And that way you can adjust your biases and you can mitigate their impact.
And you can utilize them and give credence to them and understand them and utilize them to the best of your ability.
And both leadership and fighting both of them as the more you do and the more you pay attention to your instincts, the better they're going to both become.
Now, that being said, there's another kind of instinct that you need to be on the lookout for.
And this one is a liar.
This one is a saboteur.
Well, this one is a backbiter.
And like the devil himself, he's a shape shifter.
He's going to disguise himself and make you think he's got your best interest in mind.
But he doesn't.
This is the instinct that says you've had enough.
This is the instinct that says you've given it your best shot.
You can you can stand down.
You can back off.
You can take a knee.
This is the instinct that says you can rest now.
Do not listen to that instinct.
Do not listen.
That instinct is a liar and wants to bring you down.
That's the instinct that's a defense mechanism.
You want to give you an out, a place to run to.
A little place to sympathy.
An amnesty, a little place of amnesty where everything is forgiven.
We're all these failures can gather together and comfort and drown their sorrows in lies and in deception.
And they tell each other,
and they'll tell you you did the best you could.
No, they'll say the deck, the deck was stacked against you.
And they'll say it's not your fault.
And they'll tell you it's okay to stop.
It's okay to settle.
It's okay to give up.
And that is the instinct you need to fight.
You need to push back to smash into the ground.
Do not take the easy way out.
Do not give up based on instinct.
If you are forced to stand down to retreat so that you can rebuild and reattach,
so be it.
But make that decision based on logic.
Not on the instinct of surrender and defeat.
And you need to train that instinct.
Your instinct.
Train it to say, get up.
Go, fight on.
And if that is what you become.
If that becomes your fundamental reaction to adversity.
If that becomes your gut instinct.
Then you will overcome just about anything that stands in your path.
And I think that's about all I've got for the night.
So thanks to all of you for listening to this podcast and for supporting the podcast.
Then now Echo is going to tell you how to do that in the most efficient way.
Yes, the most efficient way.
We'll start with an efficient way.
We'll say that.
Anyway.
Amazon.
Click through any time you shop at Amazon.
Try to remember.
Okay.
Go through the website.
Click on Amazon link.
Then do your shopping.
Yeah.
And by the way.
It may seem small.
We get a little tiny percentage.
But it is true.
We add all those little small percentages together.
It provides us with something to help us out with the podcast.
It's very supportive.
So it's very supportive.
It may not seem like a big deal.
But as a group.
It's very supportive and it's very helpful.
And you don't feel like you're not doing anything.
You are absolutely supporting the podcast.
Yep.
Agreed.
And that is yeah.
Factsually true.
I think to help you with that.
Kind of make it even more.
I guess more official.
It's a cool little way.
Super tool.
Chrome extension.
For Amazon.
Just go on the website.
It'll say a little thing.
True.
Chrome extension.
Click on that.
Kind of downloads this little extension.
Goes on your browser.
Automatically.
Supports.
The podcast.
When you shop through Amazon.
So you don't even have to remember to click through the website.
You don't have to go to the website anymore.
After that.
It does automatically.
And you got the tool too.
It's pretty cool.
It's official.
And it helps.
Helps.
Very much.
And then of course you got to support yourself.
I think some good supplements, which is saying a lot because there's, you know, there's a lot of not good supplements up there.
On it supplements.
The best.
It's like it's not even really a debate anymore.
Really?
No.
I don't want to pick it up.
I think.
Given like what we're trying to do.
What all of us are trying to do here.
If you're in the game.
There's no real.
Yeah.
It's not like you're not going to find.
Power gainor 5000 chocolate protein.
Tub of powder.
It's not that.
It's like legit supplements.
Alpha brain, Nutropix, proven.
They got all the literature on there too.
By the way.
Krill oil, the best quality.
Eco friendly.
Produce.
Anyway, it's the best supplements by far.
On it.com slash.
Jockel, you can get 10% off.
So you support yourself as well.
Shroom tech.
Yes.
Recommended.
Highly recommend it.
I told a story last time about the, about the krill oil.
In joints, about my protein.
But I'm telling you the krill oil.
Even if you don't even realize it.
I didn't even realize it.
But when after a while when you take your like man, it's, yeah.
It's good.
I feel good.
I feel real good.
Shroom tech for, yeah.
If you're getting after it high intensity stuff for, you know,
you need kind of prolonged period.
That's going to help you.
Notably.
You feel it.
You.
Yeah.
Help.
You utilize like oxygen better in your muscles.
Something like that.
I'm not the scientist behind it.
Obviously.
You can't read about it.
If you want.
But downs are good one.
Anyway, check out all the supplements they're 10% off.
And they're all legit.
And I don't know if a warrior bar is even a supplement.
But it's a bar.
It's a food.
Yeah.
It's like a food.
It's good though.
Check down one out.
Check that one out.
Rest assured you'll like how it tastes.
Do your check it out.
That favor.
Yes.
There's some ways also subscribe to the podcast on iTunes.
Of course.
If you feel like leaving a review don't like hesitate to leave the review.
If you just leave the review, just do it.
Like if you feel like doing it, you know how you're like,
I like I could say this about this whatever thing.
Or you're like, yeah.
And you might be thinking, well, those guys are going to read it.
No.
We'll read it.
And I'm going to take some input and we'll be fired up.
It's motivating when people are fired up and leaving reviews.
It's a connection.
You know, and it makes me go, you know what?
We're going to get this thing a little bit harder.
Yeah.
When you're like, that juck was very articulate.
Makes juck a want to be even more articulate.
Right?
Yes.
It does indeed.
It's like, I'm a do that.
And you know, if you're anything helps do that actually helps.
The ratings or something with with iTunes when there's money.
iTunes when there's more reviews.
So why do we want to have good readings ratings?
So then it gets bumped up.
Why do we want to bump up?
Some more people listen to it.
Why do we want more people listen to it?
Because we want more people getting after it.
We want more people to do better.
Yeah.
I want more people in the game.
I want to get more feedback.
I want to talk to more people.
Yep.
When I see Brady Lanter at his jutsu class saying, I just got after told me.
He lost 30 pounds.
That's what we want more of.
That's what I want more of.
That's it.
And I'm assuming you want that.
That's why.
So ultimately it really gets down to that.
I definitely.
I hate to use the word motivated.
But I guess there is no other word.
I am definitely motivated by the people that are making their lives better.
That are the people that are getting better physically.
By the people that are getting better mentally.
That right me an email or send me a note that says,
Oh, had to use some, had to use some flanking on my boss today.
Got him.
Yep.
That is good to go.
That was in person.
That's what I like to hear.
When someone says, Hey, echo, can I use your in jockel's likeness in a thing on my bulletin board for my students to employ extreme ownership?
Can I do that?
Just the fact that that's a question you want to ask?
Makes it.
Just a minute.
Like I talked to before.
You're interesting.
So I talked about today.
I didn't know about getting after it when I was 13 years old.
Imagine somebody being in a classroom and being like, Hey, you want to get after it?
Here's what you got to do.
Here's this.
Here's a couple guys.
They're getting after it.
You know what?
Why don't you get after it?
13 year old boy?
13 year old girl?
Why don't you make something happen?
You know what?
You know there's people that do 500 pull-ups of workout?
They don't do 28.
28 done many things around here.
Step up your game.
So exposing the world.
So that people can do better.
Do more.
Be more.
Let's get to go.
Yeah.
If you had more people being less abrasive, losing their temper left or less exercising
extreme ownership and discipline and all things.
Persuing freedom through discipline.
That is a better place across the board.
You might even go so far as to say unmedicated daily discipline and all things.
You know.
So that's the ultimate goal.
Also, subscribe to YouTube.
If you want, add some more videos on there.
Aside from just the podcast video.
Add some more videos on there.
And we have been.
And I think that we, not you echo, but we, the rest of us.
I think we can motivate you more to make more videos.
Because every time you make a video like when you, not just a clip of the podcast, but when
you make a legit video, I'm always like, yeah.
And I think a lot of people say the same thing.
And there's actually a lot of troops out there that are, that are making badass videos, too.
Yes.
We've had Jean, Jean, Roderick, Jean Roderick make some killer videos.
Can we put his videos on the Jockel podcast page?
I think I did a damn I'm gonna put videos on there in a while.
But yes, we can.
We should do that.
So that everybody can see all the troop of work that goes out there.
You know what it does, too?
In the small little way where, you know, okay, you'll say some words.
You'll say, you'll say what you say.
And I take it a certain way.
I'm like, dang that really hit me at resonated with me.
Other people, other words might hit them harder or less harder or whatever.
So if people have like video editing skills, you know, or they know how to video edit
And stuff like that and put tracks and do that stuff.
When they put it out, it's kind of, it is a representation of how those words hit them.
Yeah.
You know, like, you make a decision to put a certain type of track behind what you're saying for a reason.
So it's so interesting to see, dang, that's how that hit him.
You know, in this feeling is how it hit him.
And it's like, dang, you kind of get a different dimension of it.
It's cool too because for me, I'm, I don't hear my words, right?
I don't hear my words.
Then I hear my words with, with the same thing you're saying, like, the way it's entering their brain.
Because we make a video, right?
When you make a video, it's a reflection of the, what's going on in your mind.
Yeah.
And so like some of those videos that Jean made, I was like, Oh, yeah.
Like, yeah, like it's going, it's taking me inside his head and what it appears to be from inside his head,
which is awesome to hear and awesome to see.
You know, so yeah, we should get those and he had a couple that went didn't go through the copyrighted material.
I don't know if he took the wrong songs or some, but it was a bummer because some of those were awesome.
That's, yeah, that's part of the battle right there.
I think, but hey, you know, whichever.
But anyways, what I was going to say is I think the more people that are YouTube subscribers,
I think the more motivated that you will personally get, that's my opinion,
to make even more badass videos.
That's my opinion.
Well, like you think it might get like a competition.
You'll make the better one.
No, no, no, no, I don't think that.
I think you're inspired by this video.
It's the same way I am that other people make, but I'm saying, I think you will just be motivated more of the more people.
Like you know, when you say a video has just been uploaded by Jockel podcast and you know that it's going to 50,000 people.
You'll be a boom, click, boom, click.
You'll start getting after a little bit more.
Yeah, and personally, I want you to get after it more.
That's the director for just the process.
One is like one of the original ones that someone else made.
I hate that I can't remember like the names of the people did it, but it's the one.
It was to the Pacific soundtrack.
Oh, yeah, it was one of the original.
I was drinking one night.
Yeah, it was on time when you made drinking.
I was drinking some of us playing that was like, bro, I'm feeling so deeply right now.
I played literally like eight to 12 times just in a row.
Dang, this is so like just because you see their clips from movies.
They're clips from this and it's a mashup and you know, the music and here's the thing.
It's not like hard core music.
It's like, man, it's really good.
And I think like I said, that's like such a good way to see not only just your words,
but how someone else heard them interpret them and put them back out there.
It's like a whole other dimension.
Anyway, yes, I'll get more on the YouTube for sure.
I'm already more on the YouTube.
Yeah, you are.
But I'll keep it up. I'll keep it up. I'll do it.
I like that. Do some more.
We'll do some different topics.
I'll make some videos.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, I won't.
I won't. I'll get there.
Also, to support this podcast in the event of you being in the mood to support this podcast,
you can get some cool stuff.
I think it's cool at jacquestor.com.
T-shirts, the multiple layers to them.
Not physically, psychologically, philosophically, they have multiple layers to them.
All of them.
Some Easter eggs too.
Sure, it's travel mugs and bumper stickers.
Now, new stuff that's available right now.
Well, may or may not be available, maybe sold out.
But they could be on back there.
You can order it.
You can order it. Yes.
New stuff.
Rash guards.
I thought it was for Duget 2, but
therefore everything.
Therefore lifting, like CrossFit, especially running is a good one like bike.
Like basically everything that starts.
Spend extra, it's a for surfing. I think primarily really.
But lifting whatever.
Of course, Giu-Gitsu.
Rash guards are cool.
Check them out. If you like them,
get one of those or two or whatever to support.
Stickers.
And then, Giu-Gitsu patches.
And just patches.
You can sew them on.
They're iron on, but you sew them on as long as you want.
Put on your bag.
What have you?
Giu-Gitsu patches for your ghee.
That stuff.
New things coming within the next week or two.
Women's.
Tank tops.
I think it actually lives pretty soon.
Things still too.
But yeah, there it is.
You know.
Oh, good support that way.
Yep. And that's all.
Awesome.
We appreciate that support.
That is a cool way.
You know, to help us out with what we're doing.
Also, another thing just came out is a little something.
Little Jocquite tea.
If you want to get some of that,
it's pomegranate.
And it's, somebody, I don't know where it came from.
I don't know when I started utilizing it, but I've utilized it for quite some time now.
It's live on Amazon.
It is live.
It's okay.
Go ahead, get on there, order it, and get your white tea on.
That's what we when you see me drinking it here.
If I'm not drinking an alpha brain, I'm drinking white tea.
And white tea is definitely what I'm drinking during the show.
So, give it a try.
You might dig it.
It's available on Amazon.
You could probably click through.
Unless you have the true potential thing.
You can just hit it.
You know, and get some of that Jocquite tea, which we've been,
you heard me talk about for a long time.
Now here it is.
Also, oh yeah, by the way, a road a book with my brother,
Dave Babin.
If you want to check that out,
actually, you all brought it back onto the best seller list.
Which is awesome.
And we appreciate it.
Go ahead.
Pick up copy if you don't have one.
If you got people in your life,
that you want to help them get in the game.
There you go.
Just a little something for you.
It comes to 20 bucks.
And you get your, you help somebody.
There you go.
So that's good.
And of course, hey, if you haven't heard yet,
October 20th and 21st in San Diego, California,
we're having the extreme ownership,
muster two days of get some.
With,
Lave and me live,
going deep on combat leadership on the battlefield,
in business and in life,
coming get it.
The amount of troopers that are signed up,
it's going to be killer to have everybody together.
All different industries,
companies, businesses,
firefighters, police officers,
a whole, the whole gamut of people that are in leadership positions.
That want to learn,
that want to share, that want to get better.
So come on out to the monster.
Extreme ownership,
coming get it.
And as always,
if you want to keep on kind of kicking it with echo Charles and myself,
we are all up on the interwebs,
Twitter, boom,
Instagram, yep,
Facebooky,
where there.
Echo is at echo Charles
and I am at Jocca Willink and finally,
to you.
First,
those in uniform military police fire,
those of you holding the line,
train hard,
be vigilant,
be aggressive,
and be balanced in your approach.
And also,
to those of you that are out there,
working.
And I travel the country,
and I spend time with you folks as well.
You folks that are out there,
working that are building,
that are making things,
from construction workers,
building roads and bridges and buildings,
to those of you building or
re-manufacturing engines or building cars or trucks,
those of you that are out there building,
the next generation of technology,
hardware and software,
that's going to make life better.
I meet with you all the time.
I see what you're doing,
the builders, the makers.
Thank you for working your ass off
to build the world and everything in it.
And to all YouTubers,
out there,
living life,
driving and grinding and doing the work,
give it everything you got,
put your head down,
grit your teeth,
and get after it.
So,
until next time,
this is echo and jacco,
out.